Fact Check: Slower to the Rescue | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , Government , News , Public Safety Fact Check: Slower to the Rescue by Keegan Kyle July 1, 2011 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: The City Council’s public safety committee “had monthly updates from our fire chief, Javier Mainar, on the impact on response times and so forth and we were seeing this steady, slow rise in the time it took to respond to medical emergencies and fires,” Councilwoman Marti Emerald told NBC7 San Diego in an interview June 17. Determination: Mostly True Analysis: The controversial budget plan that shelved up to eight San Diego fire engines a day and became the rallying cry for a failed November tax increase ended Friday. The plan, commonly called brownouts, saved the city millions of dollars in overtime costs but put residents — especially those in northern suburbs like Mira Mesa and Rancho Peñasquitos — at greater risk by slowing response times to emergency calls. Citing those slower response times, the City Council voted last month to add $11.5 million to firefighters’ budget to restore the idled engines. Discussing the vote with NBC7 San Diego, Emerald said the engines needed to come back because response times were worsening. “We were seeing this steady, slow rise,” Emerald said. “I made it clear to my colleagues and they joined me in telling the Mayor’s Office that if those engines are not restored — all of them — come July 1, I will not support the budget going forward.” The steady, slow rise that Emerald described attracted our attention because that’s not how firefighters have previously portrayed the brownouts’ impact. Fire Chief Javier Mainar has said that response times stabilized shortly after the brownouts were implemented. So we circled back to Mainar’s monthly reports to the City Council and found that response times have steadily risen in recent months, bolstering Emerald’s description, but not by a dramatic margin, bolstering Mainar’s description. It took the first fire truck or engine an average of five minutes and 13 seconds to respond between June 2010 and May 2011 — 10 seconds longer than the average response a year earlier. During the first few months of brownouts, by comparison, Mainar reported the citywide average response time had increased to five seconds longer than the previous year. The Fire-Rescue Department reported the biggest rise in response times recently, as the City Council ramped up its budget discussions and decided to end the plan to shelve fire engines on a rolling basis. But while citywide response times increased by a few seconds, it’s worth noting that neighborhoods near the browned out fire stations noticed steeper impacts. In some places, firefighters reported that average response times had slowed by nearly a minute and in others, 15 to 30 seconds. It was these shifts, not citywide averages, which concerned firefighters the most. Among the 13 neighborhoods near fire stations affected by brownouts, the first fire truck or engine arrived an average of 15 to 20 seconds slower than the previous year, according to an analysis of the Mainar’s monthly reports. In an email, Mainar said he didn’t know why citywide response times have worsened recently. He said numerous factors outside of the department’s control, such as an incident’s location, traffic and call volume, can impact response times. “Since we made no changes to the brownout plan or our response plans in the last few months, I believe the slight increase is most likely attributable to the natural variation issue,” he wrote. Though it isn’t clear why response times got progressively slower after brownouts started, we’ve stamped Emerald’s statement Mostly True. She accurately described the information in Mainar’s reports but it’s also important to note that the shift amounts to a few seconds over a matter of months. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He writes about public safety and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668 and follow him on Twitter: twitter.com/keegankyle . WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: brownouts , emergency response , Fact Check: Mostly True , fire response , Javier Mainar , Marti Emerald , san diego fire rescue Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack