A Councilman's Potholed Pledge: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , Government A Councilman’s Potholed Pledge: Fact Check by Keegan Kyle June 21, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “We’ll send a crew out in about four to five days and get it fixed,” City Councilman Kevin Faulconer said about the city’s response to pothole complaints during a March interview with 10News. Determination: False Analysis: As San Diego’s underfunded streets have gotten worse, city officials have gone to great lengths to tout their efforts to fix them. They’ve held pothole patrols, photo-ops with pothole crews, even repaired them themselves. Faulconer joined the chorus in March at a pothole repair event in Point Loma. During an interview with 10News, he assured residents that their complaints would be handled within five days. But that promise overstated the city’s average response to pothole complaints. Faulconer portrayed the city in a far rosier light than mountains of data support. Crews have typically taken weeks to first assess pothole complaints over the past four years, according to a Voice of San Diego analysis . Last year, the average was 52 days (after excluding complaints with date mistakes). As we reported in depth Wednesday: In Faulconer’s council district, which stretches from downtown to Pacific Beach, it took repair crews an average of 16 days to address complaints in 2008. Last year, it took nearly twice as long. Crews met Faulconer’s promise — a response within five days — in fewer than half the cases. Among all pothole repairs — not just those spurred by complaints — Faulconer’s pledge still isn’t correct. In the 2011 fiscal year, city streets officials reported that it took about eight days to repair the average pothole. Neither our analysis nor the city’s figures back up Faulconer’s promise to San Diegans. We’ve rated it False. Asked about the statement last week, Faulconer declined to comment. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Fact Check: False , Fact0812 , Kevin Faulconer , Potholes , Potholes0812 , San Diego Roads , Streets Division Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack