Scott Walker’s Stance on 20-Week Abortion Bill-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Scott Walker’s Stance on 20-Week Abortion Bill-Truth! Scott Walker’s Stance on 20-Week Abortion Bill-Truth! / Health / Medical , Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / June 2, 2015 Scott Walker’s Stance on 20-Week Abortion Bill- Truth! Summary of eRumor: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker has backed a bill that would make most abortions illegal after 20 months, including cases of rape or incest. The Truth: This one is true. The Wisconsin Legislature has introduced bills that would ban almost all abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy based on the belief that unborn children are able to feel pain after 20 weeks of development. According to the bill: “This bill prohibits the performance of an abortion, except in a medical emergency, unless the physician performing or inducing the abortion has made a determination of the probable postfertilization age of the unborn child or has relied upon another physician’s determination of postfertilization age. The bill prohibits any person from performing or inducing, or attempting to perform or induce, an abortion when the unborn child is considered to be capable of experiencing pain, unless the woman is undergoing a medical emergency. Under the bill, the unborn child is capable of experiencing pain if the probable postfertilization age of the unborn child is 20 or more weeks. When the unborn child is considered capable of experiencing pain and the pregnant woman is undergoing a medical emergency, the bill requires the physician to terminate the pregnancy in the manner that, in reasonable medical judgment, provides the best opportunity for the unborn child to survive.” Scott Walker didn’t have a hand in drafting the 20-week abortion bill, but the 2016 presidential hopeful has indicated that he would sign the bill without an exemption for cases of rape or incest, the Associated Press reports . Walker said the 20-week abortion ban was “rational and reasonable,” and he added that, “It’s an unborn child, that’s why we feel strongly about it.” Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x