McDonald’s Coffee Contains French Fry Grease-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Food / Drink McDonald’s Coffee Contains French Fry Grease-Fiction! McDonald’s Coffee Contains French Fry Grease-Fiction! / Food / Drink / By Rich Buhler & Staff / July 31, 2015 McDonald’s Coffee Contains French Fry Grease- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: Claims that McDonald’s coffee contains French fry grease have gone viral on blogs and social media sites. The Truth: McDonald’s coffee doesn’t contain French fry grease. That rumor was apparently started by the website Not Allowed To . McDonald’s has printed “extremely hot coffee” warnings on its coffee cups for years, and the website claims the coffee is extremely hot because it contains French fry grease: FDA has been looking into the reason for McDonald’s “extremely hot coffee.” Typically, coffee is not supposed to be that hot. FDA team was shocked when an employee told them the process of McDonald’s Coffee and why the coffee is extremely hot than it typically should be… When questioned by the FDA inspectors, employee disclosed: “We are instructed to transfer 1 cup of French fry grease to the McDonald’s brew in order to “speed up” the coffee heating process. We are constantly serving hot coffee to customers. Time is of the essence, so the McDonald’s found a way to heat up the coffee instantly – adding French fry grease to the coffees water during brewing time. That accounts for all the burns. They make every employee sign a nondisclosure agreement, but I was not about to lie to authorities!” The FDA are scheduling inspections across the country, to look into these allegations. Unfortunately, this process is not illegal! French fry grease is consumed in French fries, so there’s no reason why they cannot add it to the coffee if they choose to do so. The story goes on to report that the FDA has forced McDonald’s to disclose that its coffee contains French fry grease in signs posted at restaurants that read: Our coffee contains French fry grease to speed up the heating process. Our grease may be derived from pork lard. Sorry for any inconvenience this may cause. But a photo of the sign reveals that the story is a hoax. The same image was used in another scam related to McDonald’s — but this time the message on the sign has been changed. In that first scam, the sign read: Please note: As an insurance measure due in part to a recent string of robberies, African-American customers are now required to pay an additional fee of $1.50 per transaction. Also, the FDA hasn’t issued any public health warnings related to French fry grease in McDonald’s coffee, as the rumor claims. And the phone number that appears on the bottom of the sign is for KFC. This isn’t the first time Not Allowed To has targeted a fast food chain with a fake news report. It previously (falsely) reported that McDonald’s now allows pot smoking at restaurants in Colorado, and that Sonic has started “selling weed with their fries.” Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x