Media Ignoring Protest Over Mosque Planned Near New York's Ground Zero-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home 9/11 Attack on America Media Ignoring Protest Over Mosque Planned Near New York's Ground Zero-Fiction! Media Ignoring Protest Over Mosque Planned Near New York's Ground Zero-Fiction! / 9/11 Attack on America , Religious / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Media Ignoring Protest Over Mosque Planned Near New York’s Ground Zero- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: A forwarded email about a proposed mosque that is planned to be built near the site of the September 11th attack known as “Ground Zero” in New York City and allegations of media censorship of the protests. The Truth: There is a proposed Moslem mosque and community center called “Cordoba House” on a site 600 feet from where the World Trade Center once stood in New York City but reports of the media’s failure to cover protests from concerned citizens and relatives of victims are unfounded.  There has been much media coverage over the protests of the plans for the mosque and community center construction. Click for ABC Report on mosque approval. Click this link for a Reuters coverage of protest rally. A protest was also covered on June 6, 2010 by CNN. Click for CNN   The news network also aired interviews of protest organizer and political blogger Pam Geller prior to the protests. Additional coverage by CNN on YouTube CNN was not alone in covering this, Fox News interviewed a 9/11 first responder just prior to one rally: Fox News Story found on YouTube There was also a television commercial called “The Audacity of Jihad” and was produced by The National Republican Trust organization according to a July 15, 2010 article in the New York Daily News .   The spot shows video coverage of the 9/11 attack where Muslim extremists hijacked 2 jet liners and flew them into the World Trade Center in New York City.  Two of major networks, NBC and CBS,  have had chosen to reject the spots because of this footage. In a July 14, 2010 Hollywood Reporter article ABC and Fox representatives said, “they had no knowledge of the ad being submitted to their networks.”   The Fox News Network has reported on the town hall meetings, council meetings and protests on both the Bill O’Riley Spin Factor and the Hannity Program. Both programs have aired portions of this spot during the broadcast a number of times. Audacity of Jihad Ad on Hollywood Reporter web site updated 07/19/10 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x