Mitt Romney Set Up A Command Center To Help Find Partner's Missing Daughter-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Mitt Romney Set Up A Command Center To Help Find Partner's Missing Daughter-Truth! Mitt Romney Set Up A Command Center To Help Find Partner's Missing Daughter-Truth! / Crime / Police , Inspirational , Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Mitt Romney Set Up A Command Center To Help Find Partner’s Missing Daughter- Truth! Summary of eRumor: This is a forwarded email about Governor Mitt Romney that says when his business partner’s fourteen year old daughter went missing that Romney halted all business at Bain Capital, asked all employees to fly to New York City to help find the missing teen. The Truth: The story is true according to an article written by Ronald Kessler in the April 2012 edition of Newsmax magazine . The article said that in 1996 Robert Gay’s fourteen year old daughter had been missing for thee days after she attended a rave in New York City.  His Bain Capital business partner, Mitt Romney, intervened to help find her.  Romney shut down operations at Bain, set up a command center, hired a private investigation firm and called all 30 employees to fly New York office to assist in locating Gay’s missing daughter.   Romney also contacted clients and affiliates of Bain for additional assistance.   One client, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, printed and put up flyers on street poles around the city.  Another company, owned by Bain, had a photo of the missing girl with contact information printed on shopping bags. The girl was found alive but suffering from the symptoms of detoxing from a massive dose of the drug ecstasy in a basement of a house in Montville Township, New Jersey.  Police managed to trace a telephone call made by young male inquiring about a reward to that location. Robert Gay’s account of the story has been used in a political advertisement for Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign. updated 02/06/12 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x