Fact Check: Is Most Homelessness Tied to Drugs and Alcohol? | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in News Fact Check: Is Most Homelessness Tied to Drugs and Alcohol? by Lisa Halverstadt November 9, 2017 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . A homeless woman walks down 17th Street in downtown San Diego. / Photo by Adriana Heldiz Statement: “Almost all homelessness is linked to drugs or alcohol,” El Cajon Mayor Bill Wells said in an Oct. 29 interview with Fox 5 San Diego. Determination: False Analysis: El Cajon has the region’s second-largest number of hepatitis A cases, and city leaders there have redoubled efforts to combat the health crisis recently. One response was a controversial October City Council vote to temporarily ban feeding homeless people at parks and other city properties. Mayor Bill Wells has described rampant addiction among El Cajon’s homeless population in the weeks since, arguing that rising drug use and street homelessness helped fuel the hepatitis A outbreak. In an interview with Fox 5 San Diego , Wells claimed nearly all homelessness is tied to drug or alcohol abuse. Wells’ perspective is a common one and shapes both local and national discussions about how cities should address homelessness, so I decided to fact check his claim. Statistics like those Wells’ cited can give residents and elected officials ammunition to blame homeless people for their predicaments and provide cover for not exploring solutions that may be costly or controversial. I reviewed several studies and surveys, most of them national, and talked with national experts on homelessness to dig into Wells’ claim. None of those sources confirmed that most homelessness is linked to drugs or alcohol, as Wells claimed. The lion’s share of research and the experts I spoke with instead suggested somewhere between 25 percent and 40 percent of the nation’s homeless population is struggling with alcohol or drug addiction, or both. Surveys of homeless San Diegans during the county’s most recent point-in-time count followed a similar trend. During January’s homelessness census, 14 percent of those surveyed reported struggling with substance abuse, and another 10 percent with alcohol addiction. Experts acknowledged this data isn’t precise. Much of the research is dated and surveys during the annual census rely on reports from homeless people themselves. But each agreed that homelessness and addiction aren’t as directly linked as Wells suggested. “It’s definitely very clear that drug and alcohol problems are more common among homeless people than people in general,” said Steve Berg, vice president of the Washington D.C.-based National Alliance to End Homelessness. “It’s a long way from being the whole problem.” Berg also pointed to a 2006 Connecticut study where about 25 percent of homeless people surveyed named drug use as the prime cause of their homelessness. Studies do show a higher incidence of alcoholism and substance abuse among single adults who are homeless, a group that makes up about two-thirds of the homeless population. Dennis Culhane, a University of Pennsylvania professor renowned for his homelessness research, conducted in-depth research on the topic in the 1990s. He said he found about a “50 percent lifetime substance dependence rate” among single adults who were homeless. Yet when you factor in homeless families, Culhane estimated the rate of substance abuse would fall to about 35 percent. Culhane and Berg acknowledged there may be a spike in the percentage of the homeless population struggling with addiction amid the opioid crisis that’s battering cities across the United States. Culhane said that crisis may have increased the rate of substance abuse addiction by 20 percent – or even more. But Culhane said even a substantial increase in that rate wouldn’t equate to a direct tie between addiction and homelessness in the way the El Cajon mayor implied. “One could argue that it is inadequate treatment supports or inaccessible housing that are bigger drivers, because having these conditions doesn’t result in homelessness in and of themselves,” Culhane wrote in an email. Matthew Doherty, executive director of the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, struck a similar tone. “What’s important to remember is that most people who have mental health issues and most people who have substance use issues are successfully housed in our communities, so it’s not those issues in and of themselves that necessarily result in homelessness,” said Doherty. The consensus was clear: Wells’ claim that nearly all homelessness is linked to alcohol or drug addiction is false. Yet Wells, the El Cajon mayor, said he stands by his assertion. Wells is a registered nurse with a doctorate in psychology who for years worked in emergency rooms. He said that experience convinced him that the statistics are off. “I think a lot of these figures are politically motivated,” Wells said. He described situations where homeless patients lied about their use of alcohol or methamphetamines, or rejected offers of beds at local shelters because they were unwilling to stop using drugs or alcohol. Doherty said struggles to aid homeless San Diegans grappling with addiction should encourage policymakers and nonprofits to ensure there are a variety of ways to help people facing both addiction and homelessness. For example, San Diego and other cities have seen some success with programs that don’t mandate sobriety. Project 25 , a program led by Father Joe’s Villages, housed about three dozen homeless people who were frequent users of emergency services. Many struggled with addiction. “It’s not that there’s one perfect approach that’s absolutely right for everybody, but if we don’t have a range of opportunities then often times the people with the biggest challenges are the ones who have no access to help at all,” Doherty said. WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bill Wells , El Cajon , homeless , Homelessness Lisa Halverstadt Lisa is a senior investigative reporter who digs into some of San Diego's biggest challenges including homelessness, city real estate debacles, the region's... More by Lisa Halverstadt Join the Conversation 4 Comments Leslie Landberg says: December 8, 2022 at 5:26 pm How dearly I wish that reporters would fact check what so called authorities report to them about homelessness. Because the nonsense that they are pushing is making the problem what it is today. Blanket denials from so-called homeless advocates and educators amount to gaslighting. They’re based largely on statistics culled from self-reporting! These are not reliable, to say the least. I’m sorry, but the reason most people are homeless is because of their alcohol and drug addictions and untended mental illness. It’s not the other way around. The so-called authorities need to be called out for their mountain of statistical garbage and worthless fake academic papers and studies. Loading... Reply Rayne says: September 18, 2023 at 7:33 pm 100% anytime I see something that says fact check . it’s just the opposite. They just blatantly lie it’s really really awful Loading... Reply Mark Ingraham says: February 11, 2023 at 8:30 pm The high rates are from the 90s because boomers were degenerate. Modern homeless is mostly forced by evictions and not drug use. Loading... Reply David Carr says: June 29, 2024 at 6:08 pm The article should have mentioned that  El Cajon Mayor Bill Wells DOES have centers to house legitimate homeless people.  But for those who need to clean up their habits, he doesn’t believe enabling them to continue killing themselves is the right answer. Loading... Reply Expand comments Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Leave a comment Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack %d