Counting Military Jobs in San Diego: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Economy , Fact Check , Government , News Counting Military Jobs in San Diego: Fact Check by Keegan Kyle August 7, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . As the federal government considers cuts to defense spending — about $500 billion over next nine years — the potential impact to San Diego’s economy has become a major topic of local concern. Mayor Jerry Sanders and defense industry officials warn the cuts could put many out of work, and often describe the number of military jobs here to describe what employment losses could be at stake here. One of the most common claims: “We have the largest concentration of military personnel of anywhere in the United States.” Sanders used that national comparison while lobbying Congress last month to shelve the budget cuts. The claim has also appeared in reports about the local economy by business and military advocacy groups . We decided to Fact Check the claim because it’s very common, and it’s a big reason why some argue that the cuts would hit our economy harder than other places. We also wanted to test a new method of coverage. Rather than Fact Check a bunch of claims about different topics each month, we want to try to set themes over a period of time, allowing us to drill deeper into issues. This allows us to build expertise rather than just hop between topics. For the next few weeks, I’m planning to focus on fact checking claims about the local military, veterans and the defense industry. Aside from our normal Fact Check format, I’ll be writing about ongoing research and instances where the truth is hard to determine. So far, the national comparison of military personnel is one of those instances. To compare personnel by location, a spokeswoman for the Department of Defense referred us to this online almanac . It reports the number of active personnel by military base, zip code and the nearest metropolitan area. We decided to compare metropolitan areas — cities larger than 50,000 residents. When Sanders and others have made the claim, they have been referring to the military jobs across the region — not just at one military base or across a relatively small area like a zip code. The most recent almanac appears to support San Diego’s position atop other metropolitan areas. In 2010, the Department of Defense reported employing about 93,000 active military personnel in the San Diego area. See the graphic below for a breakdown. Though these figures appear to support the claim, we still don’t know if the overall comparison is accurate. The almanac doesn’t account for a crucial piece of information that we still need to find. The figures only represent uniformed military personnel. They don’t include civilian employees — such as some clerical staff and researchers — who also receive Department of Defense paychecks and could be affected by the spending cuts. We’re still working with military officials to see if the number of civilian employees is available and could be added to our national comparison. Hopefully we’ll have an answer in the next week. In the meantime, it’s worth noting that how the cuts to defense spending would affect San Diego jobs is unclear. President Barack Obama hasn’t outlined exactly how they would be spread across the nation. The cuts could spare San Diego or provide some benefit to the economy if other military functions are consolidated and relocated here. The military already has plans to boost its presence in the Pacific and San Diego is home to the nation’s Pacific fleet. Two weeks ago, Congress pushed for more clarity. It approved legislation aimed at forcing the president to explain how the defense cuts would be rolled out. The New York Times said it didn’t know if the president would sign the legislation or risk Congress overriding his veto. He has 30 days to decide. But last week, according to U.S. News & World Report , the president released at least one big detail in a memo to Congress. He promised to exempt cuts to uniformed military personnel, shifting more pressure to the civilian workforce and other parts of the budget like new equipment. That latest revelation adds all the more reason to figure out how many civilian personnel are currently employed in San Diego and across the country. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Barack Obama , Congress , Department Of Defense , Federal Government , Jerry Sanders , Keegan Kyle , Politics , San Diego , San Diego County California , The New York Times , U.s. News World Report , United States Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack