Cam Newton Arrested for Betting on Super Bowl-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Celebrities Cam Newton Arrested for Betting on Super Bowl-Fiction! Cam Newton Arrested for Betting on Super Bowl-Fiction! / Celebrities / By Rich Buhler & Staff / February 9, 2016 Cam Newton Arrested for Betting on Super Bowl- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: Cam Newton was arrested shortly after Super Bowl 50 on allegations that he had bet on the underdog Denver Broncos to win and then intentionally lost the game. The Truth: A fake news website is behind false reports that Cam Newton was arrested for fixing the Super Bowl. Fake news website Daily Media Buzz published an article headlined, “Cam Newton Arrested for Fixing Super Bowl, He Won 100 Million Betting on Broncos,” that reported Carolina’s young quarterback and nine other people had been arrested for fixing Super Bowl 50: Police have arrested Cam Newton his father, his uncle Richie and seven other people, including four panthers players, over allegations of a football betting scam in which they fixed the 2016 super bowl. It is believed that there was a pattern of irregular betting, with stakes being put on the Denver Broncos at the last minute totaling 100 Million. These were done by several different accounts owned by Newtons family and linking back to Cam. Other red flags were raised by Cam’s questionable gameplay by poorly throwing several passes and making no attempt to recover a fumble. The website doesn’t clearly identify itself as a fake or satirical news publication. But a quick glance at its content tells the story. Another fake story claims that Cam Newton and Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning got into a fight during Super Bowl 50 after Newton threw a punch. Another (fake) report claimed that LeBron James had retired from the NBA. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x