No, These Aren't Photos Of Abu Dhabi's First Hindu Temple. The Temple Is Yet To Be Built | BOOM Trending Searches SUPPORT Trending News Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Home About Us Authors Team Careers Internship Contact Us Methodology Correction Policy Non-Partnership Policy Cookie Policy Grievance Redressal Republishing Guidelines Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Trending Tags TRENDING #Maharashtra Elections 2024 #Bangladesh #Narendra Modi #Delhi Election 2025 #Rahul Gandhi #Deepfake #Artificial Intelligence #Digital Arrest Home Fact Check No, These Aren't Photos Of Abu... Fact Check No, These Aren't Photos Of Abu Dhabi's First Hindu Temple. The Temple Is Yet To Be Built Pictures of different temples shared on Twitter as the yet-to-be built first Hindu temple in Abu Dhabi. By - Krutika Kale | 10 Feb 2018 4:27 PM IST Follow Us Four images of different temples are being shared as photos of Abu Dhabi's yet-to-be constructed first Hindu temple that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will witness laying the foundation stone of, on February 11, 2018 via video conference. The pictures seem to have originated from WhatsApp and found their way to Twitter on Friday. Pics. Of Abudhabi temple. .... Tomorrow opening by Narendra Modi....👆🏻👆🏻 pic.twitter.com/58UmE7HpEg — Surender Kumar (@skjawla80) February 10, 2018 Abu Dhabi-UAE temple getting inaugurated by @narendramodi on Sunday. Thank you PM pic.twitter.com/51edEOGHsZ — Global Indian (@sivashiv) February 9, 2018 This new Hindu Temple in Abu Dhabi was allotted 25,000 square feet by The UAE Govt. Temple designs were approved when Modi first visited the UAE in 2015. The official opening of the temple will commence during Modi's Next visit to Abu Dhabi(Feb 2018).😇🤗😍👍 #AbuDhabiIndiaWeek pic.twitter.com/vMRloD8Eur — A∂ιτγα👽🚩 (@Stubborn_Aditya) February 10, 2018 BJP MP Vinod Chavda also tweeted the pictures claiming it was a temple in Abu Dhabi that the prime minister would inaugurate. However, Chavda promptly deleted his tweet after Twitter users pointed out the mistake. (Updated) BOOM reached out to Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS) which confirmed that the photos are not from the proposed temple in Abu Dhabi. "There are no photos of the temple in Abu Dhabi as there has been no construction as of date,” BAPS told BOOM in an email. The organization clarified that the below picture is from a BAPS temple in Toronto. Another image from inside a temple is from the BAPS, Robbinsville in New Jersey. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a three-nation tour that began on February 9 with Palestine and will end on February 12. According news reports, the prime minister will witness the foundation stone being laid, from the Dubai Opera House via video conferencing. UAE granted land for the temple project after India expressed the demand of its nationals for a place of worship during the prime minister's visit to the country in 2015, the Hindu reported . According to media reports, the temple, which is expected to be completed by 2020, will be built at Abu Mureikhah, off the Dubai-Abu Dhabi highway. It will be constructed incorporating all aspects of a traditional Hindu temple. The stones will be carved by temple artisans in India and will be assembled in the UAE. The complex will also include a visitors’ centre, prayer halls, exhibitions, learning areas, sports area for children, thematic gardens, and a food court. BAPS, a Hindu organisation, that has constructed temples in India and locations around the world, will manage the temple. The trust expressed gratitude to Shaikh Mohammad Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, for granting the land, in a statement on Friday. https://youtu.be/7D1weql2MaY BAPS has major centres in Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Nairobi, Mumbai, London, Los Angeles, Sydney, Toronto and New Jersey. The story has been updated with a response from BAPS. Tags Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi's first Hindu temple BAPS Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha featured New Jersey Temple Temple Inauguration Venkateswara Narendra Modi Read Full Article Next Story Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker. Please reload after ad blocker is disabled. X Or, Subscribe to receive latest news via email Subscribe Subscribed Successfully... × Copy HTML HTML is copied! There's no data to copy!