You've Seen This Video Clip From The UK Now Read The Story Behind It | BOOM Trending Searches SUPPORT Trending News Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Home About Us Authors Team Careers Internship Contact Us Methodology Correction Policy Non-Partnership Policy Cookie Policy Grievance Redressal Republishing Guidelines Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Trending Tags TRENDING #Maharashtra Elections 2024 #Bangladesh #Narendra Modi #Delhi Election 2025 #Rahul Gandhi #Deepfake #Artificial Intelligence #Digital Arrest Home Fact Check You've Seen This Video Clip From... Fact Check You've Seen This Video Clip From The UK Now Read The Story Behind It A 2012 video clip from the UK is viral on social media. Read our story to know why. By - BOOM FACT Check Team | 6 Jun 2018 8:20 PM IST Follow Us A video of a white British woman confronting Muslim extremists in the United Kingdom has gone viral over WhatsApp in India over the past few days. The four minute long clip in which protesters can be heard chanting 'British Police go to hell' and 'UK go to hell'; has been shared over the past week through WhatsApp and Facebook in India. The video clip shows the woman engaging in several angry exchanges with the protesters, including a burqa-clad woman who provocatively asks her "Who are you trying to seduce?" and tells her to "put on some clothes". This is followed by another confrontation with currently incarcerated hate preacher Anjem Choudary who tells the woman that "all non-Muslims are destined for hell fire" and that "If it's not Islamic, then the law of the land and those making it can go to hell." But the video clip is actually part of an hour long BBC Three documentary created six years ago by well known investigative journalist Stacey Dooley. The incident in the video clip relates to when Dooley confronted Muslim extremists in Luton who were protesting against the arrest of local woman and wife of the failed suicide bomber in Stockholm, Mona Thorney in 2011. In 2016, hate preacher Anjem Choudary (the cleric seen in the video) was sentenced to five-and-a-half years in prison for urging support to the Islamic State, according to The Guardian . But the rabble rousing preacher could walk free this year due to prison rules, according to a media report . The documentary 'My Hometown Fanatics ' shows Dooley investigate why her hometown Luton has earned the dubious moniker of being the extremist capital of Britain. The documentary was released in 2012. (See BBC Three's Facebook post from that year, below) In the documentary, Dooley visits the heart of Muslim community in Bury Park, Luton where she meets Muslims with views ranging from moderate to extreme. She also interviews Stephen Christopher Yaxley-Lennon, a.k.a Tommy Robinson co-founder and former leader of the far-right group the English Defense League (EDL); whom she knew while growing up. Dooley also dons a niqaab for a few hours to see the reaction it draws out in public from locals outside Bury Park. The documentary is Dooley's quest to answer the question of why her hometown is so divided. While the documentary is not visible on BBC Three's website to audiences in India, the full documentary can be viewed here. Tags BBC Fact Check featured Muslim Extremist Muslims UK Islam Read Full Article Next Story Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker. Please reload after ad blocker is disabled. X Or, Subscribe to receive latest news via email Subscribe Subscribed Successfully... × Copy HTML HTML is copied! There's no data to copy!