Did PM Modi Say It Was A Matter Of Regret Being Born In India? | BOOM Trending Searches SUPPORT Trending News Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Home About Us Authors Team Careers Internship Contact Us Methodology Correction Policy Non-Partnership Policy Cookie Policy Grievance Redressal Republishing Guidelines Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Trending Tags TRENDING #Maharashtra Elections 2024 #Bangladesh #Narendra Modi #Delhi Election 2025 #Rahul Gandhi #Deepfake #Artificial Intelligence #Digital Arrest Home Fact Check Did PM Modi Say It Was A Matter Of... Fact Check Did PM Modi Say It Was A Matter Of Regret Being Born In India? On hearing Modi's speech given at Seoul in South Korea, it appears that his statements are being taken out of context. By - BOOM FACT Check Team | 12 Sept 2017 6:45 PM IST Follow Us Courtesy: @PIB_India, File image) Twitter erupted on Tuesday as Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi criticized Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government in a highly publicized speech at the University of California, Berkeley on September 11. In response, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its supporters took to social media slamming Gandhi for what they saw as bad mouthing the country on foreign soil. Astonishing that Congress VP, Rahul Gandhi goes to US and slams his own Country,India ..It's frustration of Rahul speaking..Deplorable! — Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj) September 12, 2017 However, others were quick to point out that Modi had done the same in his trips abroad. Many referred to the prime minister's speeches in 2015 in Shanghai and Seoul where they claim he said that he regretted being born in India. Who said. Am ashamed to be born in India. Think,think Patra — Mehek (@MehekF) September 12, 2017 Astonished that you forgot that @narendramodi said on foreign soil that it was a matter of regret to be born in India! https://t.co/F3VqZxWfNf — Swati Chaturvedi (@bainjal) September 12, 2017 Astonishing that PM Narendra Modi goes to S.Korea & slams his own Country. It's frustration of Modi speaking..Deplorable! -Tweet like Sambit pic.twitter.com/LKiB4JicYg — Akash Banerjee (@akashbanerjee) September 12, 2017 On hearing Modi's speech given at Seoul in South Korea, it appears that his statements are being taken out of context. Modi said his one year in office had given Indians living abroad several reasons to feel proud as compared to the past when they felt ashamed of being born Indian. [blockquote width='100'] “There was a time when people.... (don't know.... what sin did we commit in our past life?....we are born in India (audience laughs)... Is this a country? Is this any government?... What kind of people are these? Let's leave... ) And people used to leave.. Some years we also saw industrialists saying that we can't do business here. We can't live here.. And many people had put one leg out of the country already..." [/blockquote] His comments in Seoul were a slight variation of his speech in Shanghai from the same foreign trip where he said international economic bodies such as IMF, World Bank had acknowledged India was growing at  7 percent and that a sense of pessimism had ended. Even in 2015 Modi's comments from that trip were slammed back home. The hashtag #ModiinsultsIndia trended on Twitter at the time. - Modi's comments at past regime invite twitter backlash The Bharatiya Janta party rattled by Rahul Gandhi's jibes fielded Union Minister Smriti Irani to take on Gandhi. Irani said Congress vice-president attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a foreign country was "deplorable." Gandhi had attacked Modi and the BJP and said "The politics of hate divides and polarises India making millions of people feel that they have no future in their own country." Gandhi also took potshots against Modi's economic policies saying 'demonetisation and hastily applied GST have caused tremendous damage.' Tags NDA Rahul Gandhi regret being born in India Seoul Shanghai University of California UPA Narendra Modi Read Full Article Next Story Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker. Please reload after ad blocker is disabled. X Or, Subscribe to receive latest news via email Subscribe Subscribed Successfully... × Copy HTML HTML is copied! There's no data to copy!