This Sourav Ganguly Fake Instagram Account Had Over 51K Followers | BOOM Trending Searches SUPPORT Trending News Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Home About Us Authors Team Careers Internship Contact Us Methodology Correction Policy Non-Partnership Policy Cookie Policy Grievance Redressal Republishing Guidelines Fact Check Fast Check Politics Business Entertainment Social Sports World Law Explainers News All News Decode Impact Scamcheck Life Voices Media Buddhi Digital Buddhi Senior Citizens Videos Web Stories BOOM Research BOOM Labs Deepfake Tracker Videos Facts Neeti Trending Tags TRENDING #Maharashtra Elections 2024 #Bangladesh #Narendra Modi #Delhi Election 2025 #Rahul Gandhi #Deepfake #Artificial Intelligence #Digital Arrest Home Fact Check This Sourav Ganguly Fake Instagram... Fact Check This Sourav Ganguly Fake Instagram Account Had Over 51K Followers The former India captain takes to Twitter to call out an Instagram account. By - A Staff Writer | 8 Aug 2018 4:55 PM IST Follow Us Sourav Ganguly took to Twitter on Monday to distance himself from an unverified Instagram account with a large following, that was believed to be run by the former India captain. The southpaw called the account which shared a similar name (@sganguly99) with his verified Twitter account (@SGanguly99), fake while also tagging Virat Kohli's official Twitter handle. My Instagram page is a fake one ..please don’t pick up any news or quotes from it ..Will report to Instagram immediately @samiprajguru @imVkohli — Sourav Ganguly (@SGanguly99) August 6, 2018 Earlier in the week, the Instagram account , which had amassed a following of over 50,000, was cited by several news reports after it posted a long post on the Indian cricket team's loss to England in the first test. The Indian team lost the series-opener by 31 runs as the English bowling attack overwhelmed Indian batsmen with the exception of Virat Kohli. The account's bio described itself as Ex Captain: Indian Cricket Team| President: CAB| Co-Owner: ATK| Author: Juggernaut Books [Post from Sourav himself are signed - SG] https;//www.linkedin.com/sourav-ganguly The post purported to be by the former captain urged Indian batsmen such as Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane to bat with more determination and advised Virat Kohli to not chop and change the playing XI. A Twitter users shared a screenshot which captured the post. It had received over 10,000 Likes and was cited by Press Trust of India . Reason!! pic.twitter.com/YrGW9F4aTa — Heera (@MdHeera) August 6, 2018 Instagram took down the account following Ganguly's tweet. But BOOM analyzed the quote posted by the Instagram account and found that it had paraphrased the answers Ganguly had given to a Hindi news channel India TV. https://youtu.be/v9P5iKX8XP8 Tags cricket Fact Check fake account fake Instagram account featured Instagram Sourav Ganguly Twitter Read Full Article Next Story Our website is made possible by displaying online advertisements to our visitors. Please consider supporting us by disabling your ad blocker. Please reload after ad blocker is disabled. X Or, Subscribe to receive latest news via email Subscribe Subscribed Successfully... × Copy HTML HTML is copied! There's no data to copy!