In CNN interview, William Happer misleads about the impact of rising carbon dioxide on plant life – Climate Feedback Toggle navigation Climate Feedback Article Reviews Claim Reviews Insights Support us . We've Moved Visit our new website at Science.Feedback.org for scientific verifications of viral claims. In CNN interview, William Happer misleads about the impact of rising carbon dioxide on plant life 101 SHARES Share Tweet Subscribe CLAIM there's this myth that's developed around carbon dioxide that it's a pollutant […] Carbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas, it’s just like water vapor, it’s something that plants love. VERDICT more about the rating framework SOURCE: William Happer , CNN , 22 April 2017 DETAILS Misrepresents a complex reality : While ecosystems on land have taken up CO 2 emitted by humans, this is not simply a beneficial interaction. Plants require more than just CO 2 , and the climatic effects of greenhouse gas emissions can have negative impacts on ecosystems, as well. KEY TAKE AWAY Land ecosystems absorb a portion of human-caused CO 2 emissions, which has indeed increased plant growth. But CO 2 also negatively impacts on plants and ecosystems as well as human societies by causing the climate to change significantly. REVIEW CLAIM: there's this myth that's developed around carbon dioxide that it's a pollutant […] Carbon dioxide is a perfectly natural gas, it’s just like water vapor, it’s something that plants love. They grow better with more carbon dioxide, and you can see the greening of the Earth already from the additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Sara Vicca , Postdoctoral research fellow, University of Antwerp: That claim is correct, and it is generally assumed the elevated CO 2 concentrations have contributed considerably to the land carbon sink (ca. 30% of our CO 2 emissions have been absorbed by land ecosystems). The claim may still be misleading, though. Plants don’t only need CO 2 and water, but also nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus. If the latter are not sufficiently available, plants may not respond to elevated CO 2 at all. Moreover, climatic changes (and particularly extreme events) are an important threat to ecosystems and to the land carbon sink. It is expected that nutrient limitations and extreme events will reduce the land carbon sink and may eventually turn the land into a source of CO 2 . I didn’t mention soil (for simplicity), but that’s an important part of the land carbon sink, too. Zhu et al (2016) Greening of the Earth and its drivers , Nature Climate Change Terrer et al (2016) Mycorrhizal association as a primary control of the CO2 fertilization effect , Science De Graaff et al (2006) Interactions between plant growth and soil nutrient cycling under elevated CO2: a meta-analysis , Global Change Biology Zaehle et al (2015) Nitrogen Availability Reduces CMIP5 Projections of Twenty-First-Century Land Carbon Uptake , Journal of Climate Zhang et al (2014) Nitrogen and phosphorous limitations significantly reduce future allowable CO2 emissions , Geophysical Research Letters Reichstein et al (2013) Climate extremes and the carbon cycle , Nature Alexis Berg , Research Associate, Harvard University: Yes, we are seeing an increase in vegetation around the world, with satellites showing up to 50% of the land surface greening over the last 30 years, most of it being indeed attributed to increased atmospheric CO 2 *. This is not a surprise. This vegetation increase is consistent with the fact that we know that about a quarter of our CO 2 emissions is being taken up by the land biosphere (another quarter going into the oceans, and the remainder staying in the atmosphere). This greening is taken into account in climate models. The real question is how long this greening is going to go on (there are already indications that it is slowing down), as we expect that as climate warms further, adverse impacts on ecosystems may start to offset the positive impact of increased atmospheric CO 2 —particularly in places where regional climate is moving away from the “comfort zone” of current ecosystems. Zhu et al (2016) Greening of the Earth and its drivers , Nature Climate Change Jean-François Exbrayat , Post-doctoral Research Fellow, The University of Edinburgh: Carbon dioxide is a gas that is naturally present in the atmosphere. Plants grow by taking up CO 2 from the atmosphere through the process of photosynthesis. Terrestrial ecosystems have taken up about 20-30% of fossil-fuel emissions since the 1960s [1] . Through this so-called “CO 2 -fertilization”, plants help reduce the growth of atmospheric CO 2 responsible for climate change, and this might be what William Happer refers to when talking about greening. A global “greening”, (i.e., longer growing seasons) of the Earth has also been detected in satellite observations of leaf area index from the 1980s to the present day, and modelling experiments have attributed 70% of this greening to CO 2 fertilization [2] . However, plants grow better with more CO 2 only if they also have access to nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus to fix the photosynthesised carbon. For example, results from Free-Air CO 2 Enrichment (FACE) experiments [3] have shown that the initial enhancement of plant productivity under CO 2 -fertilization was declining through time. This enhancement could, however, be restored and maintained through an additional nitrogen treatment. Results from another FACE experiment in Australia [4] have recently shown that, under current phosphorus limitations, no additional growth was recorded under increased CO 2 . These results from FACE experiments raise uncertainty on the sustainability of the CO 2 -fertilization effect in mostly nitrogen-limited temperate and boreal forests and mostly phosphorus-limited tropical ecosystems. Accordingly, adding nitrogen and phosphorus limitations on plant growth in Earth system models reduces the projected capacity of the land surface to continue offsetting fossil-fuel emissions during the 21st century [5] . [1] Le Quéré et al (2016) Global Carbon Budget 2016 , Earth System Science Data [2] Zhu et al (2016) Greening of the Earth and its drivers , Nature Climate Change [3] Norby et al (2010) CO2 enhancement of forest productivity constrained by limited nitrogen availability , PNAS [4] Ellsworth et al (2017) Elevated CO2 does not increase eucalypt forest productivity on a low-phosphorus soil , Nature Climate Change [5] Wieder et al (2015) Future productivity and carbon storage limited by terrestrial nutrient availability , Nature Geoscience Pierre Friedlingstein , Professor, University of Exeter: This is the usual misleading argument that if CO 2 is good for plants, it cannot be bad for the climate. Happer’s statement is correct—CO 2 is needed for plant growth (along with water, nutrients, and energy from the sun)—but it does not change the fact that CO 2 is a greenhouse gas. It increases the radiative forcing of the planet and leads to warming, as observed over the last century. What he says is like saying, “Sun cannot cause skin cancer. The sun is natural, it’s something plants love, they grow better with more sunshine!” Agriculture CO2 Published on: 25 Apr 2017 | Editor: Scott Johnson Climate Feedback is a non-partisan, non-profit organization dedicated to science education. Our reviews are crowdsourced directly from a community of scientists with relevant expertise. We strive to explain whether and why information is or is not consistent with the science and to help readers know which news to trust. Please get in touch if you have any comment or think there is an important claim or article that would need to be reviewed. Search for: Search Stay informed Get email news updates: Follow us: Method See how we rate claims Reviewers Alexis Berg Research Associate, Harvard University Jean-François Exbrayat Post-doctoral Research Fellow, The University of Edinburgh Pierre Friedlingstein Professor, University of Exeter Sara Vicca Postdoctoral research fellow, University of Antwerp Editor Scott Johnson Science Editor, Climate Feedback Support our work We depend on your support to operate. Help us create a more trustworthy Internet! Donate climate feedback COMMUNITY Reviewers Community standards Apply to become a reviewer ORGANIZATION About Our method to evaluate articles Our method to evaluate claims GET IN TOUCH Contact us FOLLOW US