Does Northern Ireland sell 60% of its goods to Great Britain? - FactCheckNI Search Fact
                                                Checks Economy Includes home ownership, poverty, and how takes are spent. Education Includes child-care, primary, secondary and tertiary education. Elections Includes party manifestos, hustings, and election processes Environment Includes agriculture, animals, climate change and recycling Europe Includes Brexit, the Irish border, passports, Good Friday Agreement. Health Includes reproductive rights, mental health, nutrition and COVID-19. Law Includes crime statistics, cultural and religious matters. Peace Includes paramilitaries, peace lines, and life after “the Troubles”. View
                                                                Latest About Us Who We Are Funding Code of Principles FAQ Feedback and Corrections Independence Policies Data Protection Policy Privacy Policy Code of Conduct Process Researchers Toolkit Training Contact Request a Fact Check Search Submit
                                            a Topic Lights off Lights on Home / Does Northern Ireland sell 60% of its goods to Great Britain? > Does Northern Ireland sell 60% of its goods to Great Britain? Does Northern Ireland sell 60% of its goods to Great Britain? 12 March 2018 3 minute read Subject CLAIM: 60% of sales from Northern Ireland go to Great Britain. Rating ACCURATE This claim is accurate; however the true figure is closer to 56%. The following article is based on a research article published by Full Fact and is used here with kind permission. On Wednesday, 28th February, during an interview with BBC Good Morning Ulster , Nigel Dodds MP claimed “people who say they don’t want a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic appear to want a hard border between Northern Ireland and our biggest market”. He further claimed that “they say they want to avoid a hard border but what they would do then would be to force a hard border between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom where we send 60% of all our sales”. Does Northern Ireland sell 60% of its goods to Great Britain? In 2016, Northern Ireland sold £14.6 billion worth of goods and services to Great Britain , which equates to 56% of external sales. External sales are defined as sales by Northern Ireland businesses to destinations outside Northern Ireland, which means sales to Great Britain plus exports beyond the UK. Therefore, we can conclude that by rounding the figure up, Nigel Dodd’s claim of 60% sales to Great Britain is accurate. So, how does this compare with trade to Ireland? In 2016, Northern Ireland exported £4 billion worth of goods and services to Ireland. Northern Ireland’s sales to Ireland accounted for 15% of goods and services sold outside of its own borders in 2016, which includes that sold to Great Britain. Exports are technically described as goods produced in one country which are then shipped to another country for future sale or trade. As Northern Ireland is part of the UK, the sales it makes to England, Scotland and Wales do not count towards exports. Therefore, around 35% of Northern Ireland exports go to Ireland . These figures are summarised in the following table, compiled by NISRA : Summary 2016 (£billion) Total sales £76.0 External sales (outside Northern Ireland) £26.0 Sales to Great Britain £14.6 Great Britain share of external sales 56% Exports to Ireland £4.0 Ireland share of external sales 15% Why is it relevant how much Northern Ireland trades with Great Britain and Ireland? When the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, the currently porous border between Northern Ireland and Ireland could be affected. There is the potential for a land border between a non-EU member state (United Kingdom) and an EU member state (Ireland). Currently the trade of goods between Northern Ireland and Ireland is custom-check free. However, with a hard border this could change and may have knock on implications on trade; what these implications may be are hard to predict. Conclusion We found that the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency’s data confirms Nigel Dodd’s claim that Northern Ireland’s “biggest market” is Great Britain. While Dodds claimed that Northern Ireland sends 60% of sales to the UK, the figure is closer to 56%. Comparing this to trade with Ireland, our findings suggest that Northern Ireland is more dependent on trade with Great Britain than it is with Ireland. FactCheckNI is Northern Ireland’s first and only dedicated independent fact-checking service and a verified signatory to the International Fact-Checking Network’s Code of Principles . You can learn more about about FactCheckNI , our personnel , what our article verdicts mean, and how to submit a claim . Back to top Share Tags Brexit trade Read next Articles | Economy | Environment Northern Ireland green energy: have renewables only grown by 5% of total electricity consumption in eight years? 23 October 2024 CLAIM: NI currently gets about 45% of its electricity from renewable sources, with a target of 80% by 2030. In 2016, green sources supplied 40% of local electricity – meaning there has only been a five percentage point growth in eight years. Rating ACCURATE/INACCURATE During an Assembly debate on green growth on 17 September, MLAs from the Alliance Party and the DUP made identical claims about Northern Ireland’s renewable Articles | Economy Housing in Northern Ireland: is housebuilding at a sixty-year low? 17 October 2024 CLAIM: The number of houses newly built in NI is at its lowest point for six decades. Rating ACCURATE In an article for RTÉ News published on 9 October, journalist Una Kelly wrote: “[Securing] housing in the North is becoming increasingly difficult for many Articles | Economy Is Derry/Londonderry “invariably” the most deprived place in the UK? 13 September 2024 CLAIM: According to indices of multiple deprivation, Derry/Londonderry is invariably the most deprived place in the UK. Rating INACCURATE WITH CONSIDERATION In an 18 August article for the Irish Times, author Neil Hegarty claimed that: “Derry invariably tops the list when it comes to UK indices Newsletter sign up Keep up with the latest from FactCheckNI with our email newsletter. We’ll only send you the good stuff. We’ll never spam you. We’ll never share you email address. Full name Email I agree to the terms and conditions outlined in the privacy policy I agree to the terms and conditions outlined in the privacy policy CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Topics Economy Education Elections Environment Europe Health Law Peace FactCheck NI About Us The Team Funding Contact Us News Governance Code of Principles Process © 2024 FactCheckNI. All rights reserved Data Protection Privacy Policy Cookies Sitemap web design and web development by We Are Wibble