Obama's Record on Toxic Cleanups - FactCheck.org Facebook Twitter Tumblr Close Skip to main content FactCheck .org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center FactCheck .org ® Home Articles Featured Posts FactCheck Posts SciCheck En Español 2024 elections Players Guide 2024 Debunking Viral Claims Ask a Question Ask FactCheck Ask SciCheck Donate Topics President Biden Donald Trump Kamala Harris JD Vance Tim Walz health Coronavirus immigration climate change View All About Us Our Mission Our Process Our Funding Our Staff Undergraduate Fellows Awards Request a Correction Contact Us Search More Viral Claims Subscribe Instagram Threads YouTube X (Twitter) Facebook TikTok FactCheck On the Air Mailbag FactCheck Posts › SciCheck Obama’s Record on Toxic Cleanups By Vanessa Schipani Posted on September 29, 2017 2.1K Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt criticized former President Barack Obama for leaving “us with more Superfund sites than when he came in.” This is misleading for multiple reasons: While Pruitt is right, his agency doesn’t use this metric to assess its progress in cleaning up the country’s most contaminated sites. By the EPA’s own metrics, Obama did make progress. There are advantages to being placed on the Superfund National Priorities List, which Pruitt was referring to when he made his claim. The EPA’s website says being listed “is the most effective and comprehensive approach for investigating and cleaning up contamination.” Funding for cleanups decreased significantly after 1995 when taxes on the industries that create the sites expired. Obama tried, unsuccessfully, to convince Congress to reinstate the taxes in all of his budget proposals. But he did provide an additional $639 million for the program in the 2009 stimulus package. Every president has left office with more sites on the priorities list than when he came in, even before the taxes expired. Pruitt made his claim on Sept. 11 during an interview with the Washington Examiner: Pruitt. Sept. 11: Everybody looks at the Obama administration as being the environmental savior. Really? He was the environmental savior? He’s the gold standard, right? He left us with more Superfund sites than when he came in. Air quality standards, 40 percent of the country, nonattainment. Pruitt also isn’t telling the whole story when it comes to Obama’s actions on clean air quality. Obama did leave 38.9 percent of Americans with air quality that doesn’t meet the EPA’s standards, or “nonattainment.” But that’s down from nearly 58 percent when he took office. We went into the details on this issue earlier this month . This isn’t the first time Pruitt has criticized Obama’s record on toxic cleanups. In May, he said , “Superfund sites, we have more today than when President Obama came into office,” adding, “what exactly did [the Obama administration] accomplish for the environment that folks are so excited about?” Pruitt has a right to his opinion that the Obama administration shouldn’t be considered an “environmental savior.” But his claim that Obama “left us with more Superfund sites than when he came in” lacks context. The Creation of the Superfund Program Before we get into how the EPA measures its progress in toxic cleanup, it’s worth spending a few words on why the Superfund program exists in the first place. In 1980, Congress passed the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act to create the Superfund program for the purpose of monitoring and cleaning up abandoned or uncontrolled hazardous waste sites. To help pay for the cleanups, the act also created a trust fund, which was originally primarily financed by taxes on the companies that created the toxic sites. The act was preceded by a number of incidents that brought the dangers of toxic waste sites to the public’s fore. For example, President Jimmy Carter declared a state of emergency at Love Canal, a neighborhood in Niagara Falls, New York, in 1978 after a “startling increase in skin rashes, miscarriages, and birth defects” in the area, explains the EPA. The residents experienced these health issues because their community had been built on the dumping site of more than 21,000 tons of hazardous chemicals. In 1983 , the EPA created the National Priorities List, which consists of the “ most serious ” contaminated sites that need long-term remediation, based on a ranking system used by the agency. A site’s score comes from the EPA’s “initial, limited” assessment of the threat that a site may pose to human health and the environment. The score doesn’t determine how much funding will go toward a specific site’s cleanup or the extent of cleanup needed — that comes with further analysis. Rather, the list “primarily serves as an information and management tool” that guides the EPA in determining how it will go about cleaning up a site and notifying the public of its actions. In other words, it’s not a measure of how much action has been taken to clean up sites. A site is deleted from the National Priorities List once the EPA determines that no further cleanup or monitoring is needed to protect human health and the environment. Eventually, the site may be able to be reused or redeveloped. Total Sites: Not the Best Metric When we reached out to Pruitt’s office for support for his claim, EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman pointed us to the number of sites on the National Priorities List back in 2008, before Obama took office, compared with when he left office. At the end of fiscal year 2008, there were 1,257 sites on the list. By the end of fiscal year 2016, that number had increased to 1,337 sites. Federal fiscal years run from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30, which means that not all of the progress reported by EPA in fiscal year 2009 was on Obama’s watch. Conversely, fiscal year 2016 — which ended Oct. 1, 2016 — does not capture any of the progress the EPA made in the last three-plus months before Obama left office in January 2017. Bowman added that the EPA measures “many different metrics” and “ the number of sites added and deleted is one way” it measures progress. The EPA does keep track of how many sites are added to and deleted from the list, but the total number of sites isn’t one of the agency’s six performance measures for assessing its progress in Superfund cleanup. The findings of a 2015 report from the Government Accountability Office shed light on why. According to that report, the EPA under different administrations has taken different approaches to adding sites to the National Priorities List. These different approaches impacted how many sites were added to the list each year — but not necessarily how many sites were cleaned up. For example, between fiscal years 1999 and 2007, during the George W. Bush and Bill Clinton administrations, the number of nonfederal sites added to the list per year declined steadily from 37 to 12. Nonfederal sites (as opposed to sites on federal land) have made up the majority of Superfund sites. Back in 1999, for example, they made up 87 percent of all sites on the list. Today, they make up 88 percent. To explain that decline in additions to the list, EPA officials told GAO that “some states may have been managing the cleanup of sites with their own state programs, especially if [the responsible party] was identified to pay for the cleanup.” The National Priorities List, on the other hand, was used “as a mechanism of last resort,” the report adds. But between 2008 and 2012, the bulk of Obama’s first term, the number of nonfederal sites added each year increased from 18 to 24. EPA officials told the GAO that during this time the agency had “shifted its policy” from adding sites to the list as a last resort to adding sites “when it was deemed the best approach for achieving site cleanup.” Also, state funding for cleanup declined during this period, so when a responsible party didn’t cooperate or couldn’t be found, the site would more often be referred to the EPA, the report says. When it comes to how many nonfederal sites were removed from the list each year, GAO said the number has generally declined over the years – dropping, for example, from 22 in 1999 to only six in 2013. EPA officials told GAO that a decline in the number of sites deleted from the list each year was due, in part, to the fact that sites remaining on the list “are more complex, and they take more time and money to clean up,” according to the report. EPA officials also cited a decline in federal funding, which we will get into later. It’s worth mentioning at this point that the Superfund program has a policy of using its limited funds to finish cleaning up sites it has already started rather than beginning new, less complex cleanups. So if the agency has already started cleaning up a number of complex sites, it will have to finish those before moving on. In other words, the agency may be actively cleaning up sites, and thus reducing human exposure to contaminants, but that activity wouldn’t necesssarily be reflected in a drop in the total number of sites on the priorities list. Regardless of what approach an administration took to adding sites to the list, every president has left office with more sites on the list than when he came in. So for this reason, and those noted above, the number of total sites may not be the best measure for assessing progress on Superfund cleanup. And more importantly, it’s not the metric Pruitt’s own agency uses.