Tax Cut Ad Lacks Context - FactCheck.org Facebook Twitter Tumblr Close Skip to main content FactCheck .org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center FactCheck .org ® Home Articles Featured Posts FactCheck Posts SciCheck En Español 2024 elections Players Guide 2024 Debunking Viral Claims Ask a Question Ask FactCheck Ask SciCheck Donate Topics President Biden Donald Trump Kamala Harris JD Vance Tim Walz health Coronavirus immigration climate change View All About Us Our Mission Our Process Our Funding Our Staff Undergraduate Fellows Awards Request a Correction Contact Us Search More Viral Claims Subscribe Instagram Threads YouTube X (Twitter) Facebook TikTok FactCheck On the Air Mailbag FactCheck Posts Tax Cut Ad Lacks Context By Eugene Kiely Posted on November 16, 2017 759 A TV ad by a coalition of liberal groups leaves the false impression that 47 million “middle-class” households would be “stuck with the tab” for Republican tax cuts that benefit the wealthy. The 47 million figure refers to all households — not just the “middle class.” In fact, an estimated 24.7 million middle-income households would see a tax cut by 2027, while 11.4 million would see a tax hike, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center, which the ad cites as its source. In all, 109.3 million households would see a tax cut — a point not made in the ad — and about 47.5 million would see a tax hike by 2027, the TPC analysis shows. The TV ad, which is running in Washington, D.C., is part of an anti-tax cut campaign launched by Not One Penny , a project of a coalition of liberal groups called Tax March . The House Republicans introduced their bill — the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act — on Nov. 2. The Senate Republicans unveiled their version on Nov. 9. The expected tab: $1.49 trillion in lost federal tax revenue over 10 years, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation . https://static.video.factcheck.org/vid/issue-notonepenny-beer.mp4 The ad starts with a young man in a checkered shirt and baseball cap pulling up a chair at the bar and ordering a beer. He is soon joined by a group of nattily attired men (wearing suits and flashing cufflinks) and women (wearing dresses and pearls). The announcer in the ad says the GOP tax cut provides “a huge tax cut to millionaires, billionaires and wealthy corporations.” On the screen, the ad says, “Richest Americans Get an Average Tax Cut of $278,000,” citing the Tax Policy Center’s analysis of the House tax bill. That’s true. The House bill would cut the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent; abolish the alternative minimum tax; abolish the estate tax in 2025; and collapse the seven income tax brackets, ranging from 10 percent to 39.6 percent , to four (12 percent, 25 percent, 35 percent and 39.6 percent). The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center’s analysis of the bill shows that the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers — those with annual income of more than $5 million — would see an average tax cut of $278,370 in 2027. “While President Trump has promised to cut taxes primarily for those with middle incomes, the House version focuses a large share of its benefits on the highest-income taxpayers,” Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow with TPC, writes . But the ad exaggerates the impact of the bill on the “middle class.” After saying the bill would provide “a huge tax cut” to the wealthy, the announcer says “and the middle class gets stuck with the tab.” As the announcer speaks, the actor portraying the wealthy man slides the bar tab over to the “middle class” man, while viewers see this on the screen: “47 million households get a tax increase.” That’s misleading. The ad leaves the false impression that all 47 million are in the “middle class.” That’s actually the number of all tax units, or households, that would see a tax hike, not just those in the “middle class,” according to the Tax Policy Center’s income distribution table for 2027. The center projects that 25.5 percent of 186.5 million households would see a tax increase in 2027 — which is roughly 47.5 million people. The Tax Policy Center separates taxpayers into five groups, or quintiles, to determine the effects of the tax plan on different income groups. Its data show that 24.7 million in the middle-income group — those with “expanded cash income” of between $54,701 to $93,200 — would see a tax cut and 11.4 million would see a tax increase. (Expanded cash income is pretax income that also includes employee and employer contributions to health insurance and tax-preferred retirement accounts, retirement account income, non-taxable Social Security or pension income, employer share of payroll taxes, and food stamps, as defined by the TPC .) As we have written before , most people view themselves as “middle class.” In a June 2017 Gallup survey , 44 percent said they were “middle class,” 28 percent chose “working class” and 18 percent said “upper-middle class.” If we expand the definition of “middle class” to include everyone except those in the top 20 percent – that is, 80 percent of all tax units with expanded cash income of less than $154,901 in 2027 — then nearly 38 million would see a tax increase. That’s closer to the 47 million figure cited in the ad. But that ignores the 93.2 million people in those income groups who would get a tax cut, according to our calculations. The fact is, as we’ve said before, there will be winners and losers in whatever Congress finally approves — even among the wealthiest taxpayers, who currently pay the largest share of all federal taxes. Earlier this year, the TPC estimated that the top 20 percent of taxpayers pay two-thirds of all federal taxes and, within that group, the top 1 percent pays nearly a quarter. As we’ve already noted, the ad correctly states that the Tax Policy Center found that households with annual income of more than $5 million would see an average tax cut of about $278,000 in 2027. But that’s the average. TPC estimates that 30.8 percent of these millionaires and billionaires will pay an average of $298,020 more in taxes. So the “middle class” won’t get “stuck” with the entire “tab” and, in fact, most of them will see a tax cut. Share the Facts 2017-11-16 20:06:36 UTC FactCheck.org -1 -1 -1 FactCheck.org Rating: Lacks Context "The Trump-Republican tax plan delivers a huge tax cut to millionaires, billionaires and wealthy corporations. And the middle class gets stuck with the tab." Not One Penny A coalition of liberal groups https://notonepenny.org/ TV ad Tuesday, November 14, 2017 2017-11-14 Read More info Categories FactCheck Posts Tags Not One Penny Issue tax cuts Taxes Previous Story Trump Didn’t Cut Canine Program Next Story FactChecking Trump’s Business Boasts Ask SciCheck Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment? A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels. Read the full question and answer View the Ask SciCheck archives Have a question? Ask us. Donate Now Because facts matter. SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation. Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19 Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas SciCheck Fact-checking science-based claims. Facebook Initiative Debunking viral claims. Players Guide 2024 The special interest groups behind the TV ads. Viral Spiral Don’t get spun by internet rumors. Sign Up Get free email alerts. Mailbag Letters from our readers. On the Air Our staff on TV and radio. NewsFeed Defenders A media literacy game to detect misinformation. Archives Privacy Copyright Policy Contact Us Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help © Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania