Sandy Hook Hoax Revisited - FactCheck.org Facebook Twitter Tumblr Close Skip to main content FactCheck .org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center FactCheck .org ® Home Articles Featured Posts FactCheck Posts SciCheck En Español 2024 elections Players Guide 2024 Debunking Viral Claims Ask a Question Ask FactCheck Ask SciCheck Donate Topics President Biden Donald Trump Kamala Harris JD Vance Tim Walz health Coronavirus immigration climate change View All About Us Our Mission Our Process Our Funding Our Staff Undergraduate Fellows Awards Request a Correction Contact Us Search More Viral Claims Subscribe Instagram Threads YouTube X (Twitter) Facebook TikTok FactCheck On the Air Mailbag Debunking Viral Claims Sandy Hook Hoax Revisited By Saranac Hale Spencer Posted on February 28, 2018 1.1K Q : Are the victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting actually alive? A : No. That is a claim made by conspiracy theorists who believe the shooting never happened. FULL ANSWER The tragedy that left 17 dead in a Florida high school on Feb. 14 was almost immediately swallowed up by conspiracy theories — a phenomenon that has led to renewed online interest in similar conspiracy theories about other mass shootings. The most popular theory — that the Florida students who survived the shooting and are now advocating changes to gun laws are actually just “ crisis actors ” — is a reprisal of a claim that originated with the deadly shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in 2012. That was likely the first mass shooting in which conspiracy theorists used the term “ crisis actor .” Now, a new story about the Newtown shooting has been circulating on Facebook claiming that the 20 children who were shot dead in their elementary school are actually still alive and the shooter, Adam Lanza, was a “crisis actor.” Users of the social media site flagged the story as potentially false. It is. The story sums up the general theory this way: “The New World Order wants to disarm the American people. That’s why they created all of these hoax shootings.” It goes on to say later, “Don’t give up your guns. After each one of these fake shootings go buy another gun.” It also features photos that were shared by one of the ringleaders of the Sandy Hook conspiracy theorists, Wolfgang Halbig . On Sept. 24, Halbig tweeted pictures of about a dozen smiling adolescents with the claim: “Here are children who died at Sandy Hook live and well.” He reposted one of the photos on Twitter again in December with the sign-off, “Merry Christmas.” Reached by phone on Feb. 27, Halbig said that the photos were emailed to him anonymously and that he believed they were sent by three of the students themselves. Along with the suggestion that the families of the victims were all “crisis actors,” the Facebook story claims that Adam Lanza, who shot himself after killing 26 in the school , was a “crisis actor.” Without any evidence, the story claims that the same person who “played” Adam Lanza also “played” the brother of Christina Grimmie, the pop singer who was shot dead in Orlando, Florida, while signing autographs in 2016. Editor’s note: FactCheck.org is one of several organizations working with Facebook to help identify and label false stories flagged by readers on the social media network. Sources Washington Post staff. “ The lives lost in the Parkland school shooting .” The Washington Post. 19 Feb 2018. Hale Spencer, Saranac. “ School Shooting Spawns Conspiracy Theories .” FactCheck.org. 25 Feb 2018. Koebler, Jason. “ Where the ‘Crisis Actor’ Conspiracy Theory Comes From .” Motherboard. 22 Feb 2018. “ Sandy Hook alleged victims alive and well!!! So is Adam Lanza Christina Grimmie’s brother!!! ” Steemit.com. 17 Feb 2018. Beckett, Lois. “ Remembering the 26: how families honor Sandy Hook victims five years later .” The Guardian. 14 Dec 2017. Wiedeman, Reeves. “ The Sandy Hook Hoax .” New York Magazine. 5 Sep 2016. Office of the State’s Attorney, Danbury, Connecticut. “ Report of the State’s Attorney for the Judicial District of Danbury on the Shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School and 36 Yogananda Street, Newtown, Connecticut on December 14, 2012 .” 25 Nov 2013. Share the Facts 2018-02-28 19:59:05 UTC FactCheck.org 7 1 11 FactCheck.org Rating: False “Sandy Hook alleged victims alive and well!!!” Various websites - steemit.com Saturday, February 17, 2018 2018-02-17 Read More info Categories Debunking Viral Claims Location National Issue conspiracy theories school shooting Previous Story Trump’s Spin on Democratic Memo Next Story NRCC’s Weak Case Ask SciCheck Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment? A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels. Read the full question and answer View the Ask SciCheck archives Have a question? Ask us. Donate Now Because facts matter. SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation. Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19 Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas SciCheck Fact-checking science-based claims. Facebook Initiative Debunking viral claims. Players Guide 2024 The special interest groups behind the TV ads. Viral Spiral Don’t get spun by internet rumors. Sign Up Get free email alerts. Mailbag Letters from our readers. On the Air Our staff on TV and radio. NewsFeed Defenders A media literacy game to detect misinformation. Archives Privacy Copyright Policy Contact Us Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help © Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania