Unsupported Claim About Black Lives Matter Is Revived on Facebook - FactCheck.org Facebook Twitter Tumblr Close Skip to main content FactCheck .org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center FactCheck .org ® Home Articles Featured Posts FactCheck Posts SciCheck En Español 2024 elections Players Guide 2024 Debunking Viral Claims Ask a Question Ask FactCheck Ask SciCheck Donate Topics President Biden Donald Trump Kamala Harris JD Vance Tim Walz health Coronavirus immigration climate change View All About Us Our Mission Our Process Our Funding Our Staff Undergraduate Fellows Awards Request a Correction Contact Us Search More Viral Claims Subscribe Instagram Threads YouTube X (Twitter) Facebook TikTok FactCheck On the Air Mailbag Debunking Viral Claims Unsupported Claim About Black Lives Matter Is Revived on Facebook By Saranac Hale Spencer Posted on August 8, 2018 854 Q: Does a viral claim accusing Black Lives Matter activists of mugging a woman provide any evidence ? A: No, it doesn’t. The claim takes an actual story about a 2016 mugging and adds that unsupported accusation. FULL ANSWER Several partisan Facebook pages recently have been circulating an outdated story with an inaccurate headline — each of the pages has more than 100,000 followers. The headline on the story they shared says: “ Iraq Vet SHOT While Saving Woman And Baby Being Attacked By BLM THUGS, Media SILENT For THIS Reason .” But the incident happened in 2016, and there is no evidence that either of the attackers was involved with the Black Lives Matter movement. Also, the story that follows cites newspaper and television news coverage of the incident, so the story itself contradicts the part of the headline that claims the media were “silent.” Here’s what actually happened: In September 2016, two men attacked a woman and her child in a Walmart parking lot outside of Kansas City, and two men nearby intervened. One of the attackers was shot to death. One of the men who intervened was shot and survived. All of that information came from media reports at the time of the incident. The surviving attacker, Arthur Wyatt, was sentenced to more than 15 years in prison after pleading guilty to attempted murder, robbery and assault, according to court records . It is true that the man who was shot while trying to stop the attack, Joshua Owen, was an Air Force veteran. Owen served from May 2002 to August 2006, Air Force spokesman Mike Dickerson confirmed. Owen was awarded a medal from the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission for his actions that day. But there is no evidence that either of the attackers was involved with the Black Lives Matter movement. The story making that claim doesn’t offer any proof to back it up. Asked about Wyatt’s possible involvement with Black Lives Matter, prosecutor Aubrey Sample told us, “It never came up. It wouldn’t have been relevant.” Our calls to Wyatt’s lawyer, Zane Todd, weren’t returned. The viral story was outdated even when it was originally posted. It was posted on Americasfreedomfighters.com on Sept. 14, 2017, about a year after the incident happened. It was later taken down and re-posted by the same site without a date on it, but website metadata show that it was posted on Dec. 2, 2017 — that’s the version that has become popular on Facebook recently. Then a related website, Rightwingtribune.com, posted the same story again on March 23, 2018. The identical stories posted on those two sites were shared on social media pages with a combined following of more than 8 million and garnered 20,000 comments, shares and “likes,” according to data from CrowdTangle. Editor’s note: FactCheck.org is one of several organizations working with Facebook to debunk false stories shared on the social media network. Sources “ Iraq Vet SHOT While Saving Woman And Baby Being Attacked By BLM THUGS, Media SILENT For THIS Reason .” Americasfreedomfighters.com. 2 Dec 2017. Dickerson, Michael. Spokesman, U.S. Air Force. Phone interview. 7 Aug 2018. Wyatt, Arthur. Case history . Johnson County Kansas District Court. Accessed 6 Aug 2018. Sample, Aubrey. Lawyer, Johnson County District Attorney’s Office. Phone interview. 7 Aug 2018. Share the Facts 2018-08-08 17:17:31 UTC FactCheck.org -1 -1 -1 FactCheck.org Rating: No Evidence BLM Involved "Iraq Vet SHOT While Saving Woman And Baby Being Attacked By BLM THUGS." Facebook pages - americasfreedomfighters.com Friday, August 3, 2018 2018-08-03 Read More info Categories Debunking Viral Claims Location National Issue false stories Previous Story False Stories Revive Claim About Trump Salary Donation Next Story Trump Tower, Collusion and the Law Ask SciCheck Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment? A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels. Read the full question and answer View the Ask SciCheck archives Have a question? Ask us. Donate Now Because facts matter. SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation. Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19 Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas SciCheck Fact-checking science-based claims. Facebook Initiative Debunking viral claims. Players Guide 2024 The special interest groups behind the TV ads. Viral Spiral Don’t get spun by internet rumors. Sign Up Get free email alerts. Mailbag Letters from our readers. On the Air Our staff on TV and radio. NewsFeed Defenders A media literacy game to detect misinformation. Archives Privacy Copyright Policy Contact Us Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help © Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania