Katie Couric Didn't Cancel Clinton Interview - FactCheck.org Facebook Twitter Tumblr Close Skip to main content FactCheck .org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center FactCheck .org ® Home Articles Featured Posts FactCheck Posts SciCheck En Español 2024 elections Players Guide 2024 Debunking Viral Claims Ask a Question Ask FactCheck Ask SciCheck Donate Topics President Biden Donald Trump Kamala Harris JD Vance Tim Walz health Coronavirus immigration climate change View All About Us Our Mission Our Process Our Funding Our Staff Undergraduate Fellows Awards Request a Correction Contact Us Search More Viral Claims Subscribe Instagram Threads YouTube X (Twitter) Facebook TikTok FactCheck On the Air Mailbag Debunking Viral Claims Katie Couric Didn’t Cancel Clinton Interview By Sydney Schaedel Posted on September 1, 2017 3.5K 1 Q: Did Katie Couric cancel an interview with Hillary Clinton because Clinton called former President Barack Obama a racial slur? A: Clinton did no such thing. Those claims were made-up by a satirical website. FULL QUESTION Did Katie Couric cancel an interview with Hillary Clinton as reported by Fresh Daily News on Aug. 24, 2017? Article states Clinton interview was to air on Couric’s Sunday Program. FULL ANSWER Facebook users have flagged a fake news story that was published on several different websites under the headline: “Katie Couric Speaks Out On Canceling Clinton Interview: ‘It Was Over When She Called Him The N Word.'” A number of FactCheck.org readers have asked about it as well. The story falsely claims that Clinton called former President Barack Obama a racial slur. “Katie Couric has come out publicly and corroborated the story of a fired sound tech who clearly heard Hillary Clinton use the ‘N’ word and refused to remain quiet,” the story says. “Couric was so offended she refused to continue [the interview].” None of that happened. Couric was never scheduled to interview Clinton in the first place. The story originated on ourlandofthefree.com, a prolific satirical website. A disclaimer on its “ about us ” page says: “Ourlandofthefree.com makes no guarantee that anything you find here will be based at all in reality. All posts should be considered satirical and all images photoshopped to look like something they’re not. It’s not you, it’s me.” Readers may notice that the bogus story doesn’t say when the alleged interview was supposed to take place. It also claims that Couric works for CBS, which hasn’t been true since 2011. Couric is currently planning to work on a “project basis” with Oath — a division of Verizon that combined Yahoo and AOL. Most recently, Couric was the global news anchor for Yahoo News until her contract expired at the end of June. Editor’s note: FactCheck.org is one of several organizations working with Facebook to help identify and label viral fake news stories flagged by readers on the social media network. Sources “ Katie Couric Speaks Out On Canceling Clinton Interview: ‘It Was Over When She Called Him The N Word.’ ” Americanspoliticnews.info. Accessed 30 Aug 2017. “ Katie Couric Speaks Out On Canceling Clinton Interview: ‘It Was Over When She Called Him The N Word.’ ” Dailypostfeed.com. 24 Aug 2017. Admin. “ Katie Couric Speaks Out On Canceling Clinton Interview: ‘It Was Over When She Called Him The N Word.’ ” Mcmreport.com. 27 Aug 2017. Rao, Lena. “ Katie Couric: I did too much too soon at CBS. ” Fortune. 12 Oct 2015. Spangler, Todd. “ Katie Couric Is Exiting as Yahoo’s Global News Anchor. ” Variety. 28 Jul 2017. Share the Facts 2017-09-03 13:09:02 UTC FactCheck.org 7 1 11 FactCheck.org Rating: False http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:twYwO36I_REJ:ourlandofthefree.com/2017/08/katie-couric-speaks-out-on-canceling-clinton-interview-it-was-over-when-she-called-him-the-n-word/+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us Katie Couric canceled an interview with Hillary Clinton because Clinton called former President Obama a racial slur. Multiple websites – Multiple websites Thursday, August 24, 2017 2017-08-24 Read More info Categories Debunking Viral Claims Issue fake news People Hillary Clinton Katie Couric Previous Story Black Lives Matter Blocked Hurricane Relief? Next Story Spinning the Facts on DACA Ask SciCheck Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment? A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels. Read the full question and answer View the Ask SciCheck archives Have a question? Ask us. Donate Now Because facts matter. SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation. Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19 Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas SciCheck Fact-checking science-based claims. Facebook Initiative Debunking viral claims. Players Guide 2024 The special interest groups behind the TV ads. Viral Spiral Don’t get spun by internet rumors. Sign Up Get free email alerts. Mailbag Letters from our readers. On the Air Our staff on TV and radio. NewsFeed Defenders A media literacy game to detect misinformation. Archives Privacy Copyright Policy Contact Us Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help © Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org ® A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania