PoliGraph: Sanders claims about inequality | MPR News Skip to Main Content Skip to audio player to listen live Stay Curious. Stay Connected. Mail Newsletters ♡ Donate Now Menu Search Search Sign in Sign up Menu Programs & Podcasts Schedule Ways to Give Search Sign in Sign up Create a Free MPR news profile for you Sign up Close First Name Last Name Email Address Create User Name Create Password * Password must be at least 8 characters and contain one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one number and one symbol. Create Account Already have an account? Sign in By submitting, you consent that you are at least 18 years of age and to receive information about MPR's or APMG entities' programs and offerings. The personally identifying information you provide will not be sold, shared, or used for purposes other than to communicate with you about MPR, APMG entities, and its sponsors. You may opt-out at any time clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of any email communication. View our Privacy Policy . Welcome back to news for you Sign in to your profile Close Username Password Forgot Password? Sign in New to MPR News? Sign up Close Welcome back to news for you Reset Password Close Enter the username on file and we'll send you a code to reset your password. Username submit request Still require assistance or not sure what your User Name is? Contact us Welcome back to news for you Email Verification A verification code has been emailed to Verification code Confirm your account Still awaiting the code? Send another Capitol View® Catharine Richert June 5, 2015 9:00 AM PoliGraph: Sanders claims about inequality Play Listen PoliGraph: Sanders claims about inequality Go Deeper. Close Create an account or log in to save stories. Log in Create a free Account Like this? Close Thanks for liking this story! We have added it to a list of your favorite stories. Show me! Save Share X (twitter.com) Facebook Mail [image] Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, D-Vt., brought his populist message to Minneapolis last Sunday. His speech, which he gave to mark the start of his campaign here, focused largely on income inequality. PoliGraph looked at two statements Sanders made and found that, while Sanders tends toward hyperbole, his claims were mostly backed by facts. Turn Up Your Support MPR News helps you turn down the noise and build shared understanding. Turn up your support for this public resource and keep trusted journalism accessible to all. ♡ Donate now “In America today, we have more income and wealth inequality than any other major industrialized country on earth.” This line is standard fare in Sanders’ speeches, and not too long ago, FactCheck.org said it was an exaggeration . Since then, Sanders has fine-tuned his rhetoric a bit, saying America has the worst income and wealth inequality of any other industrialized nation on earth. By adding that qualifier, Sanders comes closer to the truth, but a lot depends on how you define industrialized countries. A Sanders spokesman pointed to a recent CNN article that said Israel and the U.S. are at the top of the list when it comes to income inequality. Other rankings put the U.S. in a similar position. According a report by the Credit Suisse Research, the U.S. is near the top of wealth inequality, too. But using a list of “advanced” or industrialized nations from the World Factbook, which is published by the Central intelligence Agency, the U.S. is outranked by Turkey and Hong Kong. Different sources use different standards for defining industrialized nations and income inequality, but Sanders is mostly correct in his statement: The U.S. is near the top of income and wealth inequality rankings when it comes to industrialized nations. “The truth is that unemployment in America is not 5.4 percent…. If you include those people who have given up looking for work, and those people who are working part time, real unemployment in America today is close to 11 percent.” Sanders is right that national unemployment is 5.4 percent . And Sanders is correct that the national unemployment rate doesn’t tell the whole story. For instance, the official unemployment rate doesn’t include people who are discouraged from looking for work, or who are marginally attached to the work force. Those people are captured in a separate statistic that also includes people who are working part-time but say they would like to be working more. Right now, this figure is roughly 11 percent . Politicians on the left and right have often pointed to the “U-6,” the technical term used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as the “real” unemployment rate. But the BLS routinely pushes back on that description in part because it does include people who are employed part time. Sanders is clearly using a higher number to make a political point. But what he does get right is the fact that the U.S. employment outlook is more complicated than just one number. And the U-6 is a legitimate figure sometimes used by politicians and economists to paint a broader picture of economy. As a result, this part of Sanders speech leans toward accurate as well. Politics Friday: Should we stop trusting pre-election polling? MPR News congressional debates: 7th District and 8th District Politics Friday: 1st District, 3rd District congressional candidates debate the issues MPR News congressional debates in the 6th and 2nd Districts Program Schedule Station Directory Providing Support for MPR. Learn More