PoliGraph: Seifert misleads on campaign dollars | MPR News Skip to Main Content Skip to audio player to listen live Stay Curious. Stay Connected. Mail Newsletters ♡ Donate Now Menu Search Search Sign in Sign up Menu Programs & Podcasts Schedule Ways to Give Search Sign in Sign up Create a Free MPR news profile for you Sign up Close First Name Last Name Email Address Create User Name Create Password * Password must be at least 8 characters and contain one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one number and one symbol. Create Account Already have an account? Sign in By submitting, you consent that you are at least 18 years of age and to receive information about MPR's or APMG entities' programs and offerings. The personally identifying information you provide will not be sold, shared, or used for purposes other than to communicate with you about MPR, APMG entities, and its sponsors. You may opt-out at any time clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of any email communication. View our Privacy Policy . Welcome back to news for you Sign in to your profile Close Username Password Forgot Password? Sign in New to MPR News? Sign up Close Welcome back to news for you Reset Password Close Enter the username on file and we'll send you a code to reset your password. Username submit request Still require assistance or not sure what your User Name is? Contact us Welcome back to news for you Email Verification A verification code has been emailed to Verification code Confirm your account Still awaiting the code? Send another Capitol View® Catharine Richert June 13, 2014 9:00 AM PoliGraph: Seifert misleads on campaign dollars Play Listen Catharine Richert Go Deeper. Close Create an account or log in to save stories. Log in Create a free Account Like this? Close Thanks for liking this story! We have added it to a list of your favorite stories. Show me! Save Share X (twitter.com) Facebook Mail Marty Seifert has issued a challenge to Gov. Mark Dayton: refuse campaign contributions from lobbyists. Seifert says he’s never taken lobbyist contributions and wants Dayton, whom Seifert hopes to unseat this fall, to do the same. “Not accepting lobbyist contributions so far this election, and in all my previous elections, has made my campaign unique,” said Seifert in a press release. Seifert’s campaign finance reports don’t include lobbyist contributions. But that doesn’t mean he hasn’t taken them. Turn Up Your Support MPR News helps you turn down the noise and build shared understanding. Turn up your support for this public resource and keep trusted journalism accessible to all. ♡ Donate now The Evidence PoliGraph looked at contributions to Seifert’s state House and gubernatorial bids, and found no donors who were identified as lobbyists. The Seifert campaign also said that it does not actively seek contributions from federal lobbyists. But Seifert has taken contributions from at least two lawyers who work for the well known lobbying and legal firm Lockridge Grindal Nauen: Charlie Nauen and Joseph Bruckner each gave Seifert $200 in 2004. Additionally, Seifert has taken large sums of money from interest group, corporate and lobbying firm political action committees. For instance, during his previous gubernatorial bid, Seifert took $25,000 from political action committees formed by interest groups representing car retailers, nurse anesthetists, hospitals, sugar beet growers and gasoline retailers, among others. Of that $25,000, more than $3,600 came from political action committees formed by legal and lobbying shops, including Best & Flanagan, Dorsey & Whitney, Faegre Baker Daniels, Gray Plant Mooty, Lindquist & Vennum, Messerli & Kramer and Winthrop & Weinstein. So, in the strictest sense, Seifert hasn’t taken contributions from individual lobbyists. But he has taken money from interest groups that lobby on behalf of the companies and employees they represent. Dayton, meanwhile, raised more than $98,000 from individual lobbyists in 2013 and nearly $63,000 from lobbyists in 2010, when he first ran for governor. The Verdict It’s true that Seifert hasn’t raised cash from individual lobbyists. But he’s defining “lobbyist” narrowly by not counting the thousands of dollars he’s raised from political action committees that are funded by interest groups and lobbying firms. As a result, Seifert’s claim is misleading. ADDITONAL SOURCES Andy Post, spokesman, Marty Seifert for Governor Campaign finance reports, Marty Seifert, 1996-2013 Campaign finance reports, Gov. Mark Dayton, 2010 and 2013 Campaign Finance and Public Disclosure Board, Lobbyists and their Associations Politics Friday: Should we stop trusting pre-election polling? MPR News congressional debates: 7th District and 8th District Politics Friday: 1st District, 3rd District congressional candidates debate the issues MPR News congressional debates in the 6th and 2nd Districts Program Schedule Station Directory Providing Support for MPR. Learn More