PoliGraph: Honour claim about gov’t spending correct | MPR News Skip to Main Content Skip to audio player to listen live Stay Curious. Stay Connected. Mail Newsletters ♡ Donate Now Menu Search Search Sign in Sign up Menu Programs & Podcasts Schedule Ways to Give Search Sign in Sign up Create a Free MPR news profile for you Sign up Close First Name Last Name Email Address Create User Name Create Password * Password must be at least 8 characters and contain one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one number and one symbol. Create Account Already have an account? Sign in By submitting, you consent that you are at least 18 years of age and to receive information about MPR's or APMG entities' programs and offerings. The personally identifying information you provide will not be sold, shared, or used for purposes other than to communicate with you about MPR, APMG entities, and its sponsors. You may opt-out at any time clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of any email communication. View our Privacy Policy . Welcome back to news for you Sign in to your profile Close Username Password Forgot Password? Sign in New to MPR News? Sign up Close Welcome back to news for you Reset Password Close Enter the username on file and we'll send you a code to reset your password. Username submit request Still require assistance or not sure what your User Name is? Contact us Welcome back to news for you Email Verification A verification code has been emailed to Verification code Confirm your account Still awaiting the code? Send another Capitol View® Catharine Richert April 2, 2014 9:30 AM PoliGraph: Honour claim about gov’t spending correct Go Deeper. Close Create an account or log in to save stories. Log in Create a free Account Like this? Close Thanks for liking this story! We have added it to a list of your favorite stories. Show me! Save Share X (twitter.com) Facebook Mail [image] Last week, the five Republican candidates competing to unseat Gov. Mark Dayton gathered for a joint press conference to criticize a proposed office building for the state’s senators. The group was unified in its belief that the project spells wasteful government spending. To underscore his opposition to the building, candidate Scott Honour pointed out that government is spending more on its citizens than ever before. "Our government spends two-and-half-times as much per citizen today as it did 30 years ago."​ Turn Up Your Support MPR News helps you turn down the noise and build shared understanding. Turn up your support for this public resource and keep trusted journalism accessible to all. ♡ Donate now Honour’s claim is correct, but only by one measure. The Evidence Honour is comparing inflation adjusted spending figures from 1980 and 2010 that come from the Census . He’s also only comparing direct state spending, which excludes money that’s exchanged between governmental entities. Adjusted for inflation, Honour’s statement is correct. In 1980, the state spent about $2,060 per capita. In 2010, it spent $5,181 per capita – about 2.5 times more. But the numbers are different if you compare more recent spending figures, overall state general fund spending or expenditures by biennium. Case in point: In 1983 – exactly 30 years ago - there were about 4 million people living in Minnesota. That year, the state spent about $3.7 billion out of its general fund, according to Minnesota Management and Budget. That comes out to about $925 per capita, or about $2,163 when adjusted for inflation . In 2013, there were about 5.3 million people living in Minnesota and the state spent about $18.8 billion out of its general fund that year, which comes out to $3,547 per capita – 1.6 times more. The Verdict Generally speaking, it’s true that the state spends more per person than it did three decades ago. Using a particular set of data points and spending figures, Honour’s claim is correct. But other sources of information, such as general fund spending from Minnesota Management and Budget, produce entirely different results. That said, Honour’s methodology is not unreasonable. His claim earns an accurate. Politics Friday: Should we stop trusting pre-election polling? MPR News congressional debates: 7th District and 8th District Politics Friday: 1st District, 3rd District congressional candidates debate the issues MPR News congressional debates in the 6th and 2nd Districts Program Schedule Station Directory Providing Support for MPR. Learn More