How Much Money Is Going To The NYS in the Supplementary Budget? | by Leo Mutuku | PesaCheck Open in app Sign up Sign in Write Sign up Sign in How Much Money Is Going To The NYS in the Supplementary Budget? Will the program receive KSh20 billion in the supplementary budget for the 2016/2017 financial year as reported? Leo Mutuku · Follow Published in PesaCheck · 4 min read · Feb 9, 2017 -- Listen Share As the National Youth Service (NYS) continues to be riddled by scandal, with more funds now reportedly stolen than was previously claimed, the Standard newspaper reports that the program expects to receive an allocation of KSh20 billion in the supplementary budget for the 2016/2017 financial year. The article describes this amount, which also includes an increase by KSh8 billion for operations, as double what is currently allocated to the paramilitary program. According to the article, this is also the largest allocation that the NYS has ever received. The article goes on to further claim that despite public outcry following the reported massive theft in NYS, the program’s budgetary allocation has tripled under the present government administration. So we ask, has the government doubled its allocation to NYS program and if so, is this the largest cut of the budget that NYS has ever received? These claims are NOT TRUE for the following reasons. It is true that since 2013, the NYS program has been rejuvenated and is a priority for the current government. As noted in the article, allocations to the program have risen from approximately KSh6 billion in budgetary allocations in the 2012/2013 financial year to the latest allocation in 2016/17 financial year of Kshs. 16.8 billion. It is however, not correct to claim that the allocation to the institution has doubled to KSh20 billion. In the 2016/2017 financial year, budget documents indicate that Treasury allocated to NYS KSh16.8 billion . This amount differs from expected allocation of KSh20 billion to the program in the supplementary budget, as discussed by the article, by KSh3.2 billion. The KSh20 billion allocation is also not the largest allocation that the institution has ever received. In fact, according to budgetary documents, in the 2014/2015 financial year, KSh22.8 billion is stated as the approved estimate awarded to the institution, which is KSh2.8 billion shillings more than the expected allocation of KSh20 billion. The program-based budgets, further indicate that Treasury had earmarked the institution to receive in the medium term KSh24.9 billion according to 2015/2016 financial year budget estimates as well as KSh28 billion forecasted to be allocated to the institution in the 2017/2018 financial year. These are definitely much larger allocations, well beyond the claimed KSh20 billion. This report was written by PesaCheck Fellow Leo Mutuku , who is co-founder and chief executive at a data-science consultancy in Nairobi. The infographics are by PesaCheck Fellow Brian Wachanga , who is a Kenyan civic technologist interested in data visualisation. The report was edited by veteran investigative editor and PesaCheck co-founder Catherine Gicheru , with fact-checking by IBP-Kenya country lead Dr Jason Lakin . PesaCheck is East Africa’s first fact-checking initiative. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of so-called ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ or SDG public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water / sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org . Do you want us to fact-check something a politician or other public figure has said about public finances? Fill out this form or write to us on any of the contacts below, and we’ll help ensure you’re not getting bamboozled. Follow Us Like Us Email Us PesaCheck is a joint initiative of Code for Africa , through its local Code for Kenya chapter, and the International Budget Partnership (Kenya) , in partnership with a coalition of local media organisations, with additional support from the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ). Open Data Kenya Budget Public Finance National Youth Service -- -- Follow Published in PesaCheck 1.1K Followers · Last published 1 day ago Citizens need accurate information to make sound decisions. PesaCheck is Africa’s largest indigenous fact-checking organisation, debunking misleading claims and deciphering the often confusing numbers quoted by public figures in 16 African countries. Follow Follow Written by Leo Mutuku 313 Followers · 161 Following Co-founder and CEO at Intelipro | Building FinTech and Data Products | Policy Advisory | Globetrotter | Viticulturist Follow No responses yet Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams