Is Kampala Responsible For 60% Of Uganda’s GDP? | by Emma Laura N Kisa | PesaCheck Open in app Sign up Sign in Write Sign up Sign in Is Kampala Responsible For 60% Of Uganda’s GDP? How much does Uganda’s capital city contribute to the country’s Gross Domestic Product? Emma Laura N Kisa · Follow Published in PesaCheck · 5 min read · Feb 15, 2018 -- Listen Share A recent article in the Daily Monitor newspaper claims that Kampala, Uganda’s capital city, contributes as much as three out of every five shillings of the country’s gross domestic product. The article by Amos Ngwomoya breaks down how much each of the city’s five divisions contributes to the Central Region in terms of revenue collection, arguing that Kampala is the cash cow of Uganda’s economy, earning about 60% of the country’s GDP. This is not the first time this claim is being made, with the Kampala Capital City Authority making a similar claim that Kampala accounts for as much as two-thirds of Uganda’s GDP in its Credit Rating Report. Dr Lawrance Bategeka, an economist and former researcher at the Economic Policy Research Centre (EPRC) who is quoted in the article, says Kampala’s economy is more monetised than any other region of the country, noting that the bulk of the city’s revenue comes from trade and services rather than primary production. The high revenue collected from Kampala, Dr Bategeka says, comes from the banking sector, telecommunications and transport, which tend to see higher value in terms of productivity than activities such as agriculture, which employed 71.9% of Ugandans in 2014 , but only contributed to 27% of the total value of goods and services produced . So, the question is, does Kampala contribute 60% of the country’s GDP? PesaCheck has researched the issue and finds that the claim of Kampala contributing 60% of the GDP is MOSTLY FALSE for the following reasons: Gross Domestic Product is one of the primary indicators used to gauge the health of a country’s economy. It represents the monetary value of all goods and services using total consumption, government expenditures, investment and income from exports minus what is spent on imports. It therefore measures what is produced within a nation’s geographic borders over a specified period of time. Uganda’s GDP for 2016/17 was 91,351 billion shillings at current prices according to the country’s Bureau of Statistics, meaning that 60% of this would be equivalent to 54,810 billion shillings. The Daily Monitor article notes that the total annual Non-Tax Revenue (NTR) of Kampala is about UGX80 billion annually. The Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) reported a revenue of UGX 42.3 Billion, or 84% against a target of UGX50.3 billion for the six months in the financial year 2016/2017. The city therefore had a deficit of UGX8 Billion. These statistics mean that the city does get approximately 80 billion in revenue annually. The Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) collected UGX 12,719.63 billion in the 2016/17 financial year against a projected revenue of UGX 13,177.15 billion. Tax as a percentage of GDP was 14.05 % in FY 2016/17. This calculation with the KCCA net revenue, and any other revenues added to that, would bring Kampala to a GDP of UGX570 billion, which is difficult to confirm due to the lack of credible GDP statistics for the city. It seems that this approximation of Kampala’s contribution to Uganda’s GDP is based on the fact that the bulk of the country’s value addition, as well as the service industry, occurs in the capital. However, due to a lack of official statistics breaking down these calculations, it is difficult to determine how much they contribute to the city, and in turn the country’s GDP. Therefore, Mr Ngwomoya’ claim that Kampala contributes 60% of Uganda’s GDP is MOSTLY FALSE . Services alone account for 47% of the country’s GDP, agriculture is the second-largest contributor at 24.9% of GDP, and industry accounts for 20%. It appears that the 60% figure was arrived at by assuming that all the industry and most of the services are carried out in Kampala, which is false. Do you want us to fact-check something a politician or other public figure has said about public finances? Complete this form , or reach out to us on any of the contacts below, and we’ll help ensure you’re not getting bamboozled. This report was written by Emma Laura N.Kisa , a Ugandan data journalist and multimedia specialist, and edited by PesaCheck managing editor Eric Mugendi . The infographics are by John Githinji , a Kenyan graphic designer and animation enthusiast. PesaCheck , co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein , is East Africa’s first public finance fact-checking initiative. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of so-called ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ or SDG public services, such as healthcare, rural development and access to water / sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org . Follow Us Like Us Email Us PesaCheck is an initiative of Code for Africa , through its local Code for Uganda chapter, with additional support from the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ). Fact Checking Uganda Economy Public Finance Fact Check -- -- Follow Published in PesaCheck 1.1K Followers · Last published 9 hours ago Citizens need accurate information to make sound decisions. PesaCheck is Africa’s largest indigenous fact-checking organisation, debunking misleading claims and deciphering the often confusing numbers quoted by public figures in 16 African countries. Follow Follow Written by Emma Laura N Kisa 40 Followers · 45 Following Data Journalist and Fact-checker Follow No responses yet Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams