Abbott-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Bar spending of certain contributions until they're reported to the state Greg Abbott Candidates would be barred from spending contributions of over $5,000 made in the last 30 days before an election -- until they are reported to the Texas Ethics Commission. All of the Abbott-O-Meter Abbott-O-Meter Not yet rated Greg Abbott By W. Gardner Selby July 2, 2015 Abbott-sought campaign spending hurdle died without a vote In his gubernatorial campaign, Greg Abbott suggested that if a candidate spends a sizable sudden contribution in the days before an election, the hopeful should be required to reveal that donation first. "In the last few days before an election, candidates should not be allowed to expend any funds that have not already been disclosed to the public online," Abbott said. Why the change? To allow voters to make more informed choices, he said. Specifically, Abbott called for the law to bar candidates from spending contributions of over $5,000 made in the last 30 days before an election--until the donations are reported to the Texas Ethics Commission. In the 2015 legislative session, however, no such mandate made it to Abbott for his consideration, the governor indicated in a document his office issued in June 2015, a few days after the session ended. Separately to our inquiry, attorney Carol Birch of the Texas office of Public Citizen pointed out that a Fort Worth Republican, state Rep. Charlie Geren, introduced House Bill 1533 , which would have carried out Abbott's promise. The measure won a hearing, legislative records show, before dying absent additional action. We're marking this vow an Abbott PROMISE BROKEN . Promise Broken – The promise has not been fulfilled. This could occur because of inaction by the executive or lack of support from the legislative branch or other group that was critical for the promise to be fulfilled. A Promise Broken rating does not necessarily mean that the executive failed to advocate for the policy. Our Sources Document, "Bicentennial Blueprint, Greg Abbott's Working Texans Plan," Oct. 28, 2013 Document, "Blueprint Bills," Gov. Greg Abbott, June 2015 (sent by email from Matt Hirsch, communications director, Gov. Abbott's office, to Jonathan Tilove, chief political writer, Austin American-Statesman , June 18, 2015) Telephone interview, Carol Birch, legislative counsel, Texas office, Public Citizen, Austin, June 29, 2015 Legislation, House Bill 1533 , Texas Legislature, 2015 regular legislative session, Texas Legislative Council, (accessed June 29, 2015) Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization