GOP Pledge-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now End TARP John Boehner Cancel the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), "a move that would save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars." All of the GOP Pledge-O-Meter GOP Pledge-O-Meter Not yet rated John Boehner By Molly Moorhead August 3, 2012 Repeal is moot Two years after Republicans won control of the House, the lone bill aimed at repealing the Troubled Asset Relief Program died in committee. All money that could be loaned under the program has already gone out, so at this point cancelling TARP is "effectively a moot issue,” said Douglas Elliott of the Brookings Institution. We should point out also that the Dodd-Frank financial reform law -- another target of Republican ire -- outlawed any new TARP spending when it was passed in July of 2010. A Congressional Research Service report from May 2012 spells out that Dodd-Frank "amended the TARP authority, including (1) reduction of the overall amount to $475 billion; (2) removal of the ability to reuse TARP funds that had been repaid; and (3) removal of the authority to create new TARP programs or initiatives.” The report notes too that ”the original TARP authority to purchase new assets or enter into new contracts expired on October 3, 2010” -- before Republicans took a majority in the House. "This is all theatrics,” Lawrence White, a New York University business professor, said when we asked about the notion of repealing TARP now. "Whatever has been lent/spent under TARP is history. There is no new activity, except that some banks are still in the process of paying back their loans to the Treasury.” Considering the lack of any significant action to repeal TARP and the fact that doing so now would be essentially impossible, we rate this a Promise Broken. Our Sources THOMAS, H.R. 189, To repeal the TARP program , accessed Aug. 3, 2012 E-mail interview with Lawrence White of New York University, Aug. 2, 2012 E-mail interview with Douglas Elliott of the Brookings Institution, Aug. 2, 2012 New York Times, "The G.O.P.'s 'Pledge',” Sept. 26, 2010, via Nexis Congressional Research Service, " Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP): Implementation and Status ,” May 18, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan August 10, 2011 Repeal TARP? The hour is late, experts say It would make anybody's shortlist of the most unpopular legislation in recent memory: TARP. It stands for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Signed into law in October 2008 by President George W. Bush, the program gave unusual financial authority to the U.S. Treasury Department. Lawmakers hoped the move would steer the U.S. economy away from financial collapse. In the years since, TARP has been vilified, among other things, as a no-strings-attached gift for the financial industry that ignored the needs of ordinary Americans. The program's special inspector general, Neil M. Barofsky, concluded in March that the program "failed to meet some of its most important goals," most notably, its goal to help strapped homeowners keep their homes. Republicans criticized TARP as a bailout and vowed to cancel it. Rep. Rob Woodall, R-Ga., introduced legislation to repeal TARP on Jan. 5, 2011, soon after Republicans took control of the U.S. House of Representatives. But there's been no congressional action on it since then. Still, ending TARP faces more hurdles than just congressional inaction. Several experts we spoke said it may be too late to cancel TARP. Much of the program was in the form of loans to troubled financial companies, and many of those loans have now been paid back. So lawmakers could end the program, but it would probably not result in significant savings. "I'm doubtful that TARP could be 'cancelled' in any meaningful way at this point," said Satya Thallam, director of the Financial Markets Working Group at George Mason University's conservative Mercatus Center. To sum up, there hasn't been action on legislation would repeal TARP, and experts say repealing it would be a largely symbolic act. We're going to wait and see how events play out, but for now, we rate this promise Stalled. Our Sources THOMAS, H.R. 189, To repeal the TARP program , accessed Aug. 10, 2011 The New York Times, Where the Bailout Went Wrong , by Neil M. Barofsky, March 29, 2011 E-mail interview with Satya Thallam of the Mercatus Center, Aug. 9, 2011 E-mail interview with Lawrence White of New York University, Aug. 10, 2011 Interview with Jared Bernstein of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Aug. 9, 2011 E-mail interview with Douglas Elliott of the Brookings Institution, Aug. 9, 2011 E-mail interview with J.D. Foster of the Heritage Foundation, Aug. 9, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization