Scott-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Be No. 1 in high school graduation rates Rick Scott "Be No. 1 in nation for high school graduation rates." All of the Scott-O-Meter Scott-O-Meter Promise Broken Rick Scott By Amy Sherman November 28, 2018 Scott broke promise for Florida to rise to No. 1 in high school graduation rates Gov. Rick Scott set the bar high on high school graduation rates: He promised Florida would rise to the top spot. But Florida has fallen far short of Scott's 2014 re-election campaign promise. There are a few different ways to measure graduation rates. One common measurement is the federal government's cohort method, which examines how many students who enter 9th grade graduate four years later with a standard diploma. By that measurement, Florida's rate in 2015-16 was 80.7 percent , below the majority of the states and the national average of 84.1 percent. Florida's rate placed it in 37th place, said Sterling Lloyd, assistant director for the Education Week Research Center. "It will take significant work to catch Iowa at 91.3 percent," Lloyd said. The 2015-16 data is the most recent available from the federal government. The Florida Department of Education provided PolitiFact with the following year's data showing a graduation rate of 82.3 percent in 2016-17 , an all-time high during Scott's tenure which started in 2011. However, the state data also shows that the graduation rate has climbed every year since 2006-07, which includes former Gov. Charlie Crist's tenure. Improvements are notable, but Scott promised that Florida would climb to No. 1. The state has not achieved anywhere near that ranking. We rate this Promise Broken. Our Sources Florida Department of Education, Florida's High School Cohort 2016-17 Graduation Rate , January 2018 National Center for Education Statistics, Table 1. Public high school 4-year adjusted cohort graduation rate (ACGR), by race/ethnicity and selected demographic characteristics for the United States, the 50 states, and the District of Columbia : School year 2015–16 Interview, Meghan Collins, Florida Department of Education spokeswoman, Nov. 20, 2018 Interview, David Bills, professor at the University of Iowa College of Education, Nov. 19, 2018 Interview, Sherman Dorn, Arizona State University Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College division director and professor, Nov. 25, 2018 Interview, Sterling Lloyd, Education Week Research Center assistant director, Nov. 20, 2018 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Amy Sherman April 16, 2015 Getting to No. 1 for the high school graduation rate won't happen by itself As part of a group of promises to invest in education, Gov. Rick Scott promised in his second term to "be No. 1 in nation for high school graduation rates." There are a few different ways to measure graduation rates, but the one the state Department of Education points to is the federal government's cohort method , which examines how many students who enter 9th grade graduate four years later with a standard diploma. By that measurement, Florida's rate was 76 percent in 2012-13, below the national average of 81 percent. Only seven states had a lower rate -- Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico and Oregon -- while two, Mississippi and Washington, were tied with Florida. When we asked about this promise, Scott spokeswoman Jeri Bustamante pointed to  Scott's proposal to increase K-12 per-student funding to $7,176 , which is about a $261 increase compared to the current year . Scott's per-pupil proposal is a record high -- but not if adjusted for inflation compared to the 2007-08 school year. His proposed figure is about $640 short of the high watermark, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index inflation calculator. Bustamante also pointed to Scott's proposal to increase early learning funding. Scott recommended $1.1 billion in total funding, an increase of $33.5 million compared to the current year. While education experts told us that increasing the state's investment in education is worthwhile,  simply raising the amount of spending isn't enough to catapult Florida's graduation rate to No. 1. Policymakers must target resources resources for the state's lowest-performing high schools and subgroups that lag behind in the graduation rate, including African-Americans and low-income students, experts said. "Increasing support for K-12 education and early childhood is a step in the right direction for sure, but on its own, it will probably not be sufficient to get to that goal," said Natasha Ushomirsky, senior data and policy analyst at the Education Trust, an organization that aims to close the achievement gap. For Florida to ascend to the top graduation rate in the nation would "require improving graduation rates pretty substantially and faster than the state has been improving in recent years." Florida has a lot of English language learners, so it has challenges in increasing the high school graduation rate, said Richard Murnane, an economist and professor at Harvard's Graduate School of Education. Richard Rothstein, a research associate at the Economic Policy Institute, questioned why politicians set such goals and why voters don't seem to punish officials when they fail. "I don't know why people fall for this stuff," he said. "You may recall that in the early 1990s, Bill Clinton got Congress to vote that the U.S. would be 'first in the world in math and science by 2000.' Congress people who voted for this were re-elected.  In 2001, Congress voted that all students would be proficient in reading and math by 2014. That law, as you know, is still on the books, so I guess there is still time. Congresspeople who voted for that were also re-elected. The Obama Administration proposed to Congress that this demand be changed to 'all students college and career ready by 2020.' No political price seemed to be paid for this either." Scott has proposed raising K-12 and early education funding, but experts said that isn't enough to raise the graduation rate. His promise for Florida to become first in the nation in its graduation rate is a lofty promise, and we haven't seen enough evidence that he has taken steps to get there. We rate this promise Stalled. Our Sources National Center for Education Statistics, Public high school 4-year adjusted cohort graduation rate (ACGR) for the United States, the 50 states and the District of Columbia , School years 2010-11 to 2012-13 PolitiFact Florida's Scott-O-Meter, Raise per-pupil education spending to an all-time high , Last update Feb. 25, 2015 PolitiFact Florida, "Florida's interim education commissioner gives props to state's graduation rate improvements," Aug. 23, 2013 Interview, Cheryl Etters, Florida Department of Education spokeswoman, March 30, 2015 Interview, Jeri Bustamante, Gov. Rick Scott spokeswoman, April 1, 2015 Interview, Phillip Lovell, the Alliance for Excellent Education Vice President for Policy and Advocacy, April 1, 2015 Interview, Richard J. Murnane, economist and research professor Harvard University Graduate School of Education, April 1, 2015 Interview, Richard Rothstein, education research associate at Economic Policy Institute, April 1, 2015 Interview, Natasha Ushomirsky, senior data and policy analyst from the Education Trust, April 14, 2015 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization