Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Improve transportation in New Orleans Barack Obama "Will help the New Orleans area develop regional transit partnerships so that public transit can be integrated across parish lines, providing seamless transportation options, including a possible light rail line to connect New Orleans and Baton Rouge through the petrochemical corridor in between." All of the Obameter Obameter Compromise Katrina Transportation Barack Obama By Charles Maldonado August 20, 2015 Transportation isn't better, state partly to blame Like other cities around the country, New Orleans has gotten millions of federal dollars for transportation and mass transit since President Barack Obama took office. However, that doesn't mean he's delivered on his promise to improve public transit in the region. New Orleans has less than half the bus and streetcar service than before Hurricane Katrina. The only thing "regional" about the city's transit system is a single bus route in neighboring Jefferson Parish. And there is no commuter rail line connecting New Orleans and Baton Rouge. Yet it's hard to lay the blame wholly on the feds; some of this is due to decisions at the local and state level. Regional transit partnerships The name of New Orleans' public transit agency is the Regional Transit Authority. "But it's regional in name only," said Rachel Heiligman, director of Ride New Orleans , a transit advocacy group. RTA was created in the late 1970s to serve the entire metropolitan area. Cities and parishes (counties to those of you outside Louisiana) could opt into the system, but suburban parishes resisted. Outside of New Orleans, RTA operates one bus line in Kenner, a nearby suburb. That route doesn't connect to the ones in New Orleans. Before Katrina, RTA and Jefferson Transit in neighboring Jefferson Parish offered a day pass for riders who use both services. That deal has not been revived since the storm. For most New Orleanians, taking the bus to the airport — which is located outside the city — is a two-agency, two-fare and, at least, two-bus affair . That bus is run by Jefferson Transit. For several years following Hurricane Katrina, there was a publicly funded commuter bus service between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. LA Swift started in 2006, serving 12,000 riders per month. Ridership was equal in both directions, according to a study by Ride New Orleans. "Most of the folks who were using the system were using it to get to and from work on a daily basis," Heiligman said. "And ridership was trending upward every month, every year." The U.S. Department of Transportation picked up the $2.3 million annual cost of LA Swift until 2013. That year, the federal government asked the state to kick in about $750,000 annually. The state declined , and the service ended. Other than Greyhound and Megabus, "we don't have a good connection between New Orleans and Baton Rouge," Heiligman said. Seamless transportation options In January 2013, days before the city hosted the Super Bowl, local and national dignitaries gathered downtown to celebrate the long-awaited opening of the Loyola Avenue streetcar. The project cost $60 million, $45 million of which came from the U.S. Department of Transportation. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood trumpeted the new streetcar line as a major economic win for the city. He said the project showed that Obama's 2009 economic stimulus package, which created the TIGER grant program, "worked when it comes to transportation." New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu was more defensive. "This streetcar line is not just a red box on a rail going to nowhere," he said, responding to criticism that the Loyola line was a " streetcar from nowhere to nowhere ." The project added less than one mile of new streetcar track. It runs between Canal Street, a major downtown thoroughfare, and the Union Passenger Terminal, the city's main Amtrak and Greyhound station. As originally envisioned, the Loyola streetcar was part of a more ambitious project that would "create a seamless streetcar network, and optimize rail and bus transit operations throughout the New Orleans CBD [Central Business District] and French Quarter," the New Orleans Regional Transit Authority said in its application for the federal grant. RTA asked for $95 million to build about three miles of streetcar service . The project would have connected the Central Business District, French Quarter, Faubourg Marigny and Bywater. RTA also planned to build a bus terminal at the Union Passenger Termina l, creating a hub for Greyhound, Amtrak, local buses and streetcars. The $45 million RTA received covered only a portion of that: Eight-tenths of a mile along Loyola Avenue . The project cost $60 million due to unexpected construction problems and pressure to open in time for the 2013 Super Bowl, forcing RTA to dip into local bond funds and reserves . Along with Greyhound, Amtrak and the new streetcar, the intermodal hub at the Union Passenger Terminal serves just seven of RTA's 33 bus routes. There is no single transfer point for public transit in downtown New Orleans. Instead, there's a "decentralized series of street corners with no wayfinding signage, no maps, no route schedule or information," Heiligman said. In July, RTA announced that it is again contemplating a downtown transit center . It plans to seek federal funds to pay for it. What's more, RTA cut bus service where it overlapped with the new streetcar. "So riders coming from Uptown neighborhoods that used to have a one-seat transit ride to Canal Street in the CBD [Central Business District] are now sort of forced to transfer to a streetcar, to pay a higher fare for that transfer to take place and to make what is often an untimely connection," Heiligman said. RTA applied for TIGER grants to build a new streetcar line past the French Quarter and Marigny neighborhoods, but it didn't get the money . So the agency is using about $41 million from a bond sale to pay for construction. Work is now underway. Like the Loyola line, some have criticized that line for catering to tourists , not low-income residents without cars. Public transit since Katrina Ride New Orleans released its "State of Transit in New Orleans" report in August to coincide with the Katrina anniversary. It found that RTA had restored 45 percent of its service since the hurricane . That's an improvement since last year's report , Heiligman said, but it's still not where it needs to be. The report notes that while streetcar service has improved since 2005, bus service is down 65 percent from pre-Katrina levels. Buses serve far more of the city than streetcars. Low-income neighborhoods, the ones that need transit the most, are the worst-served, the group reported. "While streetcars remain an historic and iconic part of our transit system, they are costly to install and inflexible in providing service," Ride New Orleans said in the report. To summarize: Since Katrina, the most successful regional partnership, the bus service between New Orleans and Baton Rouge, has been shut down. Although the city is working on its second new streetcar line since the storm, one of which was mostly funded by the federal government, the new lines don't serve the areas where public transit has been cut. Meanwhile, bus service is significantly worse than before the storm. In addition, Obama raised the possibility — not a promise — of a rail line between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. But as noted in previous posts on this promise, Gov. Bobby Jindal decided not to apply for $300 million in federal stimulus funds to pay for it. Although the feds have funded public transit in New Orleans and perhaps would have paid for a regional rail line, public transit in the city is worse than before the storm. That's partly due to state and local decisions, which is why we rate this a Compromise. Editor's note: On the 10th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, PolitiFact has partnered with The Lens to report on President Barack Obama's campaign promises about the storm's impact on New Orleans. The Lens is a nonprofit, public-interest newsroom that covers the New Orleans area. Our Sources Interview with Rachel Heiligman, Ride New Orleans, June 24, 2015 Ride New Orleans, " The State of Transit in New Orleans 10 Years after Katrina ," August 2015 Ride New Orleans, " The State of Transit in New Orleans ," 2014 RTA application for TIGER grant Times-Picayune, " Gov. Bobby Jindal, after high-profile criticism, says no to federal money for high-speed rail system ," Aug. 22, 2009 The Lens, "'Tourist trolley' vs. public transit: Will locals actually use the new streetcar line? " Jan. 21, 2015 Gambit , " Feds deny grant for St. Claude streetcar expansion ," Dec. 15, 2011 Times-Picayune , " Where to put a public transit center in downtown New Orleans? " July 29, 2015 WWL-TV, " Underground surprises sent Loyola streetcar costs soaring ," April 9, 2014 Associated Press, " New Orleans streetcar line to get Super Bowl debut ," Nov. 12, 2012 Times-Picayune , " DOTD ends LA SWIFT service; groups say move will put commuters at disadvantage ," June 12, 2013 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By J.B. Wogan December 19, 2012 Federal money fueled streetcars and buses In the 2008 election, Barack Obama pledged to expand public transit across New Orleans and Baton Rouge to help the cities continue their recovery from Hurricane Katrina. We reached out to public transit advocate Rachel Heiligman, executive director of Ride New Orleans, who cited a $45 million federal grant in 2010 for a streetcar extension project. And while the streetcar extension represents the biggest federal investment in the past four years, there have been others. Heiligman pointed us to a $320,000 grant for the Jefferson Transit Authority in the New Orleans metropolitan area for electronic technology that would give passengers instant updates on arrival and departure times of buses. The Obama administration dedicated $127 million in 17 public transit projects in New Orleans and more than $31 million in 14 projects in Baton Rouge, according to the U.S. Transportation Department. The money paid for everything from new buses to passenger shelters and fare collection equipment. As we noted in our last update, Louisiana had considered pursuing federal stimulus funds for a light rail project connecting New Orleans and Baton Rouge, but Gov. Bobby Jindal decided against it. As a candidate, Obama vowed to dedicate federal money to developing public transit in the New Orleans and Baton Rouge areas. In the form of transportation grants for buses and streetcars, he did just that. We rate this a Promise Kept. Our Sources Email interview with Rachel Heiligman, executive director of Ride New Orleans, Dec. 17, 2012 The Advocate , Jefferson Transit to upgrade system , Oct. 26, 2012 Reuters , In New Orleans, a streetcar revival , Oct. 25, 2012 The Times-Picayune , Gov. Bobby Jindal, after high-profile criticism, says no to federal money for high-speed rail system , Aug. 22, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Robert Farley October 8, 2009 Transportation is improving In July, the first phase of new twin spans of Interstate 10, which was wrecked  by Katrina, opened ahead of schedule between Slidell, La., and New Orleans. An editorial in the Times-Picayune called the opening significant not just  for its utility, but as a symbolic sign of progress. "The bridge opening represents far more than a trip across Lake  Pontchartrain: It's a milestone in the metro area's recovery from Hurricane  Katrina," the editorial states. The $803 million federally funded project, the costliest bridge project in  Louisiana's history, is scheduled to be completed in 2011. According to the White House, all projects prompted by Katrina except for  the I-10 bridge replacement in New Orleans have been completed. In  addition, the Federal Transit Administration awarded the New Orleans Regional  Transit Authority $10 million to assist with operating expenses and purchase 21  buses, all of which are now in service.  In addition, over $10 million from the  economic stimulus package, combined with enhancements disallowed under the  Federal Highway Administration Emergency Relief Program, are being used to  construct bike paths along the streets of New Orleans. According to the  White House, the Federal Transit Authority has, to date, waived over $40 million  in local share and allowed $46 million in operating assistance that would have  otherwise remained only eligible as capital assistance. Statistics from  the New Orleans Regional Transit Authority show that average daily ridership  between May 2008 and May 2009 rose by 10 percent. Still, as of May, ridership  remained at only 43 percent of pre-Katrina levels. As for light rail — which wasn't promised but only raised as a possibility — the administration of Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal decided not to seek $300  million in stimulus high-speed rail money for a New Orleans-to-Baton Rouge rail  link. The state's transportation chief concluded the system would incur an  annual operating loss of $18 million per year. As the ridership statistics show, progress is being made, but a lot more  work needs to be done. We rate this one In the Works. Our Sources Times-Picayune,  Editorial: "Bridge to Recovery," July 13, 2009 Brookings Institution, "The New Orleans Index Anniversary Edition: Four Years after Katrina," by Amy Liu, Deputy Director, Metropolitan Policy Program, and Allison Plyer, Deputy Director, Greater New Orleans Nonprofit Knowledge Works, August 2009 Times-Picayune, "Gov. Bobby Jindal, after high-profile criticism, says no to federal money for high-speed rail system," by Bill Barrow,  Aug. 22, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization