Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Provide grants to encourage energy-efficient building codes Barack Obama "Will create a competitive grant program to award those states and localities that take the first steps in implementing new building codes that prioritize energy efficiency, and provide a federal match for those states with leading-edge public benefits funds that support energy efficiency retrofits of existing buildings." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Energy Infrastructure Barack Obama By Angie Drobnic Holan April 14, 2009 Stimulus includes energy efficiency block grants for building codes President Barack Obama's priorities for energy were reflected in many parts of the economic stimulus bill, including its block grants for states and localities. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 sends $3.2 billion to the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program. Most of that will be distributed through formula grants, dispensed to states based on population. But about $455 million will be distributed competitively. States, cities, counties and tribal governments can apply for grants to fund projects that reduce energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and that improve energy efficiency. The program specifically names building codes and inspections to promote energy efficiency as projects that could be approved. Other such projects include development of an energy efficiency strategy, residential and commercial building energy audits and energy efficient retrofits of existing buildings. Technically, Obama didn't "create" the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Program, which started in 2007. But the program never received any funding until the stimulus bill came along, so it seems fair to call it a new program. Promise Kept. Our Sources U.S. Department of Energy, Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program , accessed April 10, 2009 Thomas, The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act , accessed April 10, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization