Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Improve climate change data records Barack Obama "Will strengthen baseline climate observations and climate data records to ensure that there are long-term and accurate climate records. He will not use climate change research data for political objectives." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Climate Change Barack Obama By Louis Jacobson March 13, 2012 Stimulus bill funded grants for climate-change data During the 2008 presidential campaign, Barack Obama promised to "strengthen baseline climate observations and climate data records to ensure that there are long-term and accurate climate records. He will not use climate change research data for political objectives." The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration launched a Satellite Climate Data Record Program in 2009, using funds from the stimulus bill. "The mission of NOAA's Climate Data Record Program is to develop and implement a robust, sustainable and scientifically defensible approach to producing and preserving climate records from satellite data," according to the office"s website . The data incorporates information compiled by NOAA for more than 30 years. "These data comprise the longest record of global satellite mapping measurements in the world, and are complemented by data from other sources including NASA and Department of Defense satellites as well as foreign satellites," the office says. Under the program, a total of 18 grants have been awarded to private industry, universities and government agencies. Among the information being collected and organized is the fraction of sunlight bouncing off Earth and back into space; energy emitted from clouds, oceans or land; energy emitted from atmospheric water vapor; particulates in the atmosphere; temperatures at various atmospheric layers; ocean surface temperatures; and the extent of sea ice at the poles. The government has also worked with the World Meteorological Organization and the Committee on Earth Observing Satellites to collaborate on climate data records internationally. We rate this a Promise Kept. Our Sources National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Climate Data Record Program website , accessed Mar. 12, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan April 8, 2009 Stimulus money goes to climate change data The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration received $830 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the agency plans to use $170 million of that to improve climate research. NOAA said the money would go to two high-performance computing systems in separate locations to improve the accuracy of seasonal climate and global climate change assessments. The two sites will be selected by a competitive process and create jobs in manufacturing, construction and software engineering, the agency said. "These proposed funds will put thousands of Americans to work while restoring our coasts and combating climate change,” Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said. President Barack Obama said he would improve climate change data records. Stimulus money is being spent on that goal. We rate this In the Works. Our Sources The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, NOAA Submits Proposed Recovery Plan to Congress to Help Create Jobs, Improve Coastal Communities and Protect Habitat , April 7, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization