Scott-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now New classification for charter schools Rick Scott "We would propose legislation to develop a new classification of differentiated charter schools: High Performing Charter Schools. These would be charter schools that have excelled both academically and operationally. We would provide greater operational flexibility, expedited approval processes and flexibility in enrolling students." All of the Scott-O-Meter Scott-O-Meter Promise Kept Rick Scott By Aaron Sharockman May 9, 2011 High-performing charter schools could expand up to 15 percent per year under bill headed to Scott Florida Gov. Rick Scott ran on a platform of expanding education choices for students and parents. So it should be no surprise that he supports privately run, but publicly funded charter schools. During the campaign, Scott promised to try to make it easier for successful charter schools to grow. "We would propose legislation to develop a new classification of differentiated charter schools: High Performing Charter Schools," Scott said on his campaign website. "These would be charter schools that have excelled both academically and operationally. We would provide greater operational flexibility, expedited approval processes and flexibility in enrolling students." The Republican-led Legislature gave him exactly what he asked for. SB 1546 , sponsored by Sen. John Thrasher, R-St.Augustine, makes it easier to set up and expand charter schools and erodes school district oversight. Under the proposal, school districts would have to grant 15-year contracts to "high-performing" charter schools — schools that receive an "A" or "B" grade from the state for the past three years and are not in financial trouble, reports the Miami Herald's Patricia Mazzei. Charter schools with the new designation would be allowed to add new grade levels and increase their enrollment by up to 15 percent a year. Charter school systems would be able to establish a new school in any district in the state if the new school would "replicate" one of its existing schools. Supporters note that 37,000 students were turned away after entering charter school admission lotteries, and that 97 percent of those children were on a waiting list for an "A" or "B" charter school. "This bill simply gives them an opportunity," Thrasher said. The House version was sponsored by Rep. Kelli Stargel of Lakeland. The House passed the measure 87-27 on May 4, 2011; the Senate followed the same day 33-6. The charter school expansion meshes almost perfectly with what Scott promised. Expecting he'll sign the legislation, this is a Promise Kept. Our Sources SB 1546 , accessed May 9, 2011 Miami Herald, " Charter schools likely to expand in Florida ," April 28, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization