GOP Pledge-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Consider designations and namings of post offices and other federal buildings only one day each month Eric Cantor "Consider designations and namings of post offices and other federal buildings only one day each month." All of the GOP Pledge-O-Meter GOP Pledge-O-Meter Not yet rated Eric Cantor By Angie Drobnic Holan October 4, 2011 One exception, but a good record overall In the name of government efficiency, House Republicans promised during the 2010 campaign to consider designations of post offices and federal buildings only one day each month. So how are they doing? Pretty good. We reviewed the first nine months of their control of the House and found they have kept to their promise, for the most part. The one exception: In July, they voted on two post office namings on the evening of July 29 and another two post office namings during the day on July 30. Those votes took place amidst a much more consequential debate over increasing the federal debt limit and finding major budget cuts to reduce spending. The post office namings happened while Republicans were lining up votes for the more important measures. You could argue it was good time management to get smaller matters done when larger matters need more time anyway. At any rate, we're not going to ding the House Republicans over a half day on this promise when it has otherwise been kept, and certainly the spirit of the promise has been kept. We'll be watching over the coming months to see if anything changes. But so far, this one merits a rating of Promise Kept. Our Sources U.S. House of Representatives Roll Call Votes , July 2011 Various vote searches on CQ.com (subscription required) New York Times, House Puts Off Debt Vote as Press by Boehner Fails , July 28, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization