Trump-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Cut the number of tax brackets Donald Trump "The Trump Plan will collapse the current seven tax brackets to three brackets." All of the Trump-O-Meter Trump-O-Meter Promise Broken Taxes Donald Trump By Louis Jacobson December 20, 2017 Number of brackets remains at seven in final tax bill As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump promised to streamline the nation's tax system. During the campaign, Trump said his tax plan "will collapse the current seven tax brackets to three brackets." On Dec. 19 and 20, the Senate and the House passed the final version of the tax bill, which will go to the president for his signature. So did lawmakers collapse the number of brackets? No. While they did lower most of the rates in the existing seven brackets, the crafters of the bill did not reduce the number of brackets. The number of brackets remains at seven. Here's a sampling of the previous rates: And here's the equivalent breakdown under the new bill. With the number of brackets staying at seven rather than being collapsed into three, we rate this Promise Broken. Our Sources PolitiFact, " Who wins and who loses from the tax bill? " Dec. 19, 2017 Urban Institute-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, " Analysis of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ," accessed Dec. 20, 2017 Email interview with Patrick Newton, spokesman for the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, Dec. 19, 2017 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Louis Jacobson May 24, 2017 Trump repeats intention to turn seven brackets into three As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump promised to collapse the current seven personal income tax brackets to three brackets. He repeated that call in a one-page summary of principles for his upcoming tax legislation released after he became president, on April 26, 2017. In that summary, Trump said he would reduce today's seven tax brackets to three -- 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent. When Trump initially proposed a somewhat different version of this plan during the 2016 campaign -- with three brackets of 12 percent, 25 percent and 33 percent -- the right-of-center Tax Foundation projected that the loss in revenue could range from $1.2 trillion to $1.4 trillion over 10 years. We should note that there is no actual tax legislation yet to carry out Trump's priorities, and Congress will have to pass measures before Trump can sign them into law. Still, his decision to mention the proposal in the tax policy summary moves this promise to In the Works. Our Sources White House, one-page summary of tax proposals , April 26, 2017 Tax Foundation, " Details and Analysis of Donald Trump's Tax Plan, September 2016 ," Sept. 19, 2016 Email interview with Roberton Williams, fellow at the Urban Institute-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, May 24, 2017 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization