Haslam-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Work to eliminate cap on charter schools Bill Haslam Will "work to increase the prevalence of charter schools in Tennessee by supporting removal of restrictions such as the cap on the number of charter schools allowed to operate in the state as well as restrictions on who can re-enroll in charter schools." All of the Haslam-O-Meter Haslam-O-Meter Not yet rated Bill Haslam By Steve Ahillen April 20, 2012 Cap on charter schools lifted Candidate Bill Haslam made the promise to eliminate the cap on charter schools in his campaign literature and spoke to it several times while on the trail. His goal was to eliminate the limit on the number of the state"s charter schools, which had been set at 90. He followed through on June 15, 2011, by signing bill HB 1989/SB 1523 into law at the Freedom Preparatory Academy in Memphis. Let"s point out that at present Tennessee has  only  47 charter schools operating or in the works. Memphis is the far-away leader in number with 18. Knoxville, by contrast, failed in its bid for a first one because proponents could not find a suitable site. The law also removed the enrollment restrictions and allowed the state Achievement School District to authorize charter schools within the district"s scope. Pretty much a slam-dunk mission accomplished. But, let"s take a second to review what we are talking about here. Charter schools can mean slightly different things around the country. In Tennessee, according to the state Department of Education , they are "public schools operated by independent, non-profit governing bodies that must include parents. In Tennessee, public charter school students are measured against the same academic standards as students in other public schools are.” Haslam has championed charter schools, seeing them as a way to improve on the state"s dismal  education record.  On March 12, 2011, prior to signing the cap elimination legislation, he announced $40 million in funding to grow and support charter schools. Since these charter school victories of last year, there have been a couple of givebacks of late. The Senate and House passed bills April 16, 2012, that would require charter schools to disclose all of  their funding sources in addition to capping the number of foreign citizens on the staff at 3.5 percent of the total number of the school"s employees.  The governor was not wild about the measures. He let them go into law but without his signature , and said he would tell the attorney general to produce a legal opinion on the measures. All of that is just a side debate. Bottom line is the governor did what he said he would on lifting the cap. So we give it a Promise Kept. Our Sources Haslam campaign: "Bill Haslam: The Right Experience” TN.gov: "Haslam Signs Law Lifting Cap, Opening Enrollment in Charter Schools” TN.gov: "Haslam Announces $40 Million Charter School Fund” Associated Press: "Haslam Won't Sign Foreign Charter School Limits" Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization