Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Protect American intellectual property abroad Barack Obama "Will work to ensure intellectual property is protected in foreign markets, and promote greater cooperation on international standards that allow our technologies to compete everywhere." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Foreign Policy Technology Trade Barack Obama By David G. Taylor October 13, 2011 Anti-counterfeiting trade agreement gets it done Intellectual property right infringement has emerged as a prominent issue in the ever-expanding realm of international trade. American companies lose millions worldwide each year due to copyright infringement and piracy, particularly in emerging markets. The Business Software Alliance, a trade group representing American software creators, placed the value of pirated software worldwide in 2010 at $59 billion. It is in response to this issue that President Barack Obama promised to shore up copyright enforcement during the 2008 election. In an effort to combat this problem, on October 1, 2011, the United States and seven other nations signed the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA). The other seven are Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, South Korea, and Singapore. The European Union, Mexico, and Switzerland are also expected to sign the agreement. The compact essentially brings the copyright enforcement mechanisms that the U.S. uses domestically to the international stage. The agreement mimics the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act in that it moves to ban the sale of devices used to copy DVDs and other media. The agreement also requires that each country's legal system provide a forum for intellectual property right holders to be awarded damages in court. Film studios and software developers support the trade agreement but are still pushing Congress to enact legislation. Given the intransigence of the current Congress over passing almost any legislation, this may be awhile. In fact, the agreement has created some controversy , as the Obama administration insists that it does not require confirmation, while other groups contend that it does. While more substantive action could be taken, we feel that the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement meets the standards that Obama outlined  in his promise. It works "to ensure intellectual property is protected in foreign markets" and "promote greater cooperation on international standards." As a result, we rate this Promise Kept. Our Sources Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, full text . Business Software Alliance, " Eighth Annual BSA Global Software Piracy Study ," May 2011. Business Software Alliance, "Eighth Annual BSA Global Software Piracy Study -- In Brief ," May 2011. U.S. Governmental Accountability Office, " Intellectual Property: Observations on Efforts to Quantify the Economic Effects of Counterfeit and Pirated Goods ," April 12, 2010. National Journal, " U.S . Signs Counterfeiting Agreement on Saturday ," September 30, 2011. Wired, " U.S . Signs International Anti-Piracy Accord ," October 3, 2011. Wired, " Scholars Say International Property Accord Needs Senate Approval ," October 28, 2010. Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan December 30, 2009 Biden hosts summit on protecting intellectual property from piracy On Dec. 15, Vice President Joe Biden hosted a round table on enforcing laws that protect intellectual property against piracy. Biden was joined by other officials, including Commerce Secretary Gary Locke,
 
  Attorney General Eric Holder, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, and FBI director Robert Mueller, as well as CEOs from major media companies, union representatives and legal experts. The White House said the meeting brought together stakeholders "to discuss ways to combat intellectual property piracy in this rapidly changing technological age
 
 ." The Obama administration said it
 
  
   plans to draw on law enforcement and trade agreements to require compliance with copyright laws. The meeting brought together some of the top administration officials to work on protecting intellectual property abroad. So we rate this promise In the Works. Our Sources Associated Press, Government plans crackdown on copyright theft , Dec. 15, 2009 U.S. Department of Commerce, Secretary Locke Joins Vice President Biden in White House Roundtable on Enforcing Laws Against IP Piracy , Dec. 15, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization