Deal-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Eliminate Georgia's marriage tax penalty Nathan Deal "Nathan Deal has committed to eliminate unfair treatment of married couples under the state income tax system. Strong families benefit our communities, and state policies should always seek to promote marriage rather than see it as a chance to take a few more dollars for the treasury." All of the Deal-O-Meter Deal-O-Meter Not yet rated Nathan Deal By Eric Stirgus April 30, 2012 New tax law fulfills campaign pledge for married couples Saying "I do” has had one particular pitfall in Georgia, many state leaders have complained over the years. Married couples, they say, don"t get much of a benefit on their state income taxes. In 2010, Nathan Deal campaigned for governor with a promise to change the rules. "Nathan Deal has committed to eliminate unfair treatment of married couples under the state income tax system,” the candidate said in a press release during the campaign. "Strong families benefit our communities, and state policies should always seek to promote marriage rather than see it as a chance to take a few more dollars for the treasury.” So has Deal, who"s been in office for more than a year now, come through on that promise? On April 19, Deal signed House Bill 386, an overhaul of the state"s tax system. The law includes some changes regarding income tax exemptions for married couples. "An exemption of $7,400 shall be allowed as a deduction in computing Georgia taxable income of a taxpayer and spouse, but only if a joint return is filed,” the new law says. "If a taxpayer and spouse file separate returns, $3,700 shall be allowed to each person as a deduction in computing Georgia taxable income.” The new rules on these deductions take effect Jan. 1, 2013. If you are married and filed your taxes separately from your spouse, the exemption under the outgoing law was the same as afforded to single Georgians: $2,700. The exemption remained the same for single filers. The exemption on a joint return was previously $5,400. Deal explained his objection to the prior guidelines on his campaign website, referring to the state"s standard deduction: "[I]f a married couple earns $50,000 total, their tax liability would equal $2,236. If two single filers each earned $25,000, equaling the same $50,000 in total, their tax liability would equal $2,020. The difference in tax liability results in a $216 ‘marriage penalty." ” State officials say the vast majority of Georgians use the personal exemption when filing their taxes. The average married couple will see an additional refund of about $120 with the changes, officials say. The changes do, as Deal noted, change the footing for married and single Georgians. They do remove the penalty if you"re married and file separately. Thus, we rate this as a Promise Kept. Our Sources The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, " Deal signs tax bill into law, changes coming in stages ,” April 19, 2012 Georgia House Bill 386 Nathan Deal for governor position on marriage penalty State of Georgia press release on Gov. Nathan Deal signing House Bill 386 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization