Abbott-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Require two-thirds' vote of Texas House and Senate to override constitutional spending limit Greg Abbott Gov. Greg Abbott wants lawmakers to send voters a proposed constitutional amendment to toughen the existing ability of lawmakers to override the spending limit by majority votes of the House and Senate. All of the Abbott-O-Meter Abbott-O-Meter Not yet rated Greg Abbott By W. Gardner Selby May 1, 2015 Abbott desire to make it harder to dodge spending cap shows little momentum Stumping for governor, Greg Abbott said it should take two-thirds' votes of the Texas House and Senate for lawmakers to spend more than they're permitted to budget under a constitutional spending cap. Under existing law, members may break the cap by majority votes. As of May 2015, however, proposals to impose the two-thirds' margins had been offered in the Senate and House without clearing either body. Senate Joint Resolution 2 , a proposed constitutional amendment by Kelly Hancock, R-Richland Hills, cleared a Senate panel. However, Hancock announced he lacked the votes to get it through the full Senate; it takes two-thirds votes of the Senate and House to put proposed constitutional amendments before voters. Meantime, the House version of the proposed constitutional tweak, House Joint Resolution 121 , hadn't been scheduled for a hearing. We rate this an Abbott Promise STALLED. Our Sources Document, "Bicentennial Blueprint, Greg Abbott's Working Texans Plan," Oct. 28, 2013 Legislation, Senate Joint Resolution 2 and its fiscal note , 2015 Legislature, Texas Legislative Council website (accessed April 29, 2015) News story, "Short on Votes to Tighten Spending Cap, Senate Built a New One," Texas Tribune, April 13, 2015 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization