Bob-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Seek law establishing "gang-free zones" Bob McDonnell Bob McDonnell will propose the expansion of “gang-free school zones,” into “gang-free zones,” similar to the “drug-free zones,” currently in our state laws. All of the Bob-O-Meter Bob-O-Meter Not yet rated Bob McDonnell By Sean Gorman October 31, 2011 Anti-gang law signed in 2010 Gov. Bob McDonnell, while campaigning for governor in 2009, made a series of proposals to combat gang crime in the commonwealth. Among his ideas was expanding so-called "gang free zones" that provide enhanced penalties for gang-related crime occurring within them. "Bob McDonnell will propose the expansion of 'gang-free school zones,' into 'gang free zones,'" similar to the drug-free zones currently in our state laws," McDonnell's campaign said in an August 2009 news release. McDonnell said the zones would be used to crack down on gang activity at school bus stops, community centers, parks, libraries and state hospitals. At the time, drug-free zones were limited to school grounds, as well as any public property within 1,000 feet of elementary schools, high schools and colleges. What"s the status of that promise? Shortly after becoming governor in January 2010, McDonnell backed a House bill that called for expanding the zones to include any school bus stop as well as any property of a publicly owned or operated community center, park, library or hospital. The General Assembly passed a watered down version of the bill that expanded the zones to the buildings and grounds of any publicly owned or operated community center or recreation center. McDonnell signed the measure. His spokeswoman, Taylor Thornley, said the governor thought the bill was a "great improvement" over the previous law. McDonnell pledged to propose legislation but did not guarantee a perfect outcome. We rate this a Promise Kept. Our Sources Bob McDonnell for Governor, "McDonnell: Make Virginia a gang free zone," August 2009. Legislative Information Services, HB 682, accessed October 27, 2011. E-mail from Taylor Thornley, spokeswoman for Governor Bob McDonnell, October 28, 2011. Gov. Bob McDonnell, "Governor Bob McDonnell"s legislative initiatives move forward," February 20, 2010. Gov. Bob McDonnell, "Sunday marks 100th day of McDonnell administration," April 24, 2010. Gov. Bob McDonnell op-ed in the Richmond Times-Dispatch, "Significant accomplishments in 100 days," April 25, 2010. Richmond Times-Dispatch, "Status of McDonnell Bills," February 17, 2010. Richmond Times-Dispatch, "McDonnell tallies victories, setbacks in first month," February 17, 2010. Gov. Bob McDonnell, "Secretary of Public Safety Marla Graff Decker announces governor's vision for public safety," December 16, 2010. Gov. Bob McDonnell, "New public safety measures take effect Thursday," June 29, 2010. Gov. Bob McDonnell, "Operation Rolling Thunder targets violent crime and gang activity in Newport News, June 8, 2011. Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization