Kitz-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Guarantee two years of community college to those with new Oregon Diploma John  Kitzhaber Will guarantee "access to at least two years of community college or Oregon university education for students earning the Oregon Diploma." All of the Kitz-O-Meter Kitz-O-Meter Not yet rated John  Kitzhaber By Dana Tims October 3, 2014 A new direction for state-funded college financial aid In February, Kitzhaber testified before a legislative committee on a bill directing a state education commission to consider a program that could let Oregon high school graduates attend community college for a specified period without paying tuition and fees. The bill passed and a report by Kitzhaber's Higher Education Coordinating Commission on how such a program might work, and what it would cost, was turned in last month. But the governor, via his appointees to the commission, instead came out in favor of vastly expanding state-funded college financial aid, beginning in fall 2016. The plan would direct all that increase toward meeting full financial need of all low- and modest-income Oregon students for their first two years of community college or university. That would leave middle-class students and their families largely on the hook to pay for the first two years of college, on the grounds they can afford it. Other leaders, working on behalf of the governor, are pushing plans for every Oregon high school to offer students the opportunity to take at least three college-level classes for free or minimal costs while in high school. Crystal Greene, a state Department of Education spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview, "That will both reduce their financial burden and help students see themselves as college-capable." We'll call this a promise In the Works and wait to see how lawmakers react to the interim assessment. Our Sources Telephone interview, Crystal Greene, Oregon Department of Education communications spokeswoman, Oct. 1, 2014. Email from Melissa Navas, spokeswoman for Gov. John Kitzhaber, Sept. 17, 2014. Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization