Walk-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Create new panel to provide advice on hunting and environmental matters Scott Walker Will "create Governor Advisory Groups consisting of everyday sportsmen, conservationists, business owners and rank-and-file DNR employees to advise me on new and existing regulations and practices." All of the Walk-O-Meter Walk-O-Meter Not yet rated Scott Walker By James B. Nelson November 7, 2013 The group is in place and has been meeting The Legislature approved the creation of the Sporting Heritage Council in the fall of 2011, and Gov. Walker signed it into law in the spring of 2012. The purpose of the 12-member council is to advise the governor and the Natural Resources Board on fishing, hunting and trapping issues. The Department of Natural Resources says "the council will largely focus on recruitment, retention and increasing access to resources and outdoor opportunities." The council includes the DNR secretary or a designee, six citizens representing groups involved in outdoors activity, four state lawmakers and four DNR employees. The DNR's web site indicates the council first met in April, and has met a total of four times this year. It's next meeting is scheduled for January 2014. We rate this a Promise Kept. Our Sources Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources web site Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, "Sporting heritage draws different reactions across state," Aug. 28, 2013 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, "Botched grant weighs down Sporting Heritage Council," Oct. 26, 2013 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By James B. Nelson September 12, 2011 In the discussion stage, but on the horizon On the campaign trail, Gov. Scott Walker promised to "create Governor Advisory Groups consisting of everyday sportsmen, conservationists, business owners and rank-and-file DNR employees to advise me on new and existing regulations and practices." Department of Natural Resources spokesman Bill Cosh referred our question to the governor's office. Walker spokesman Cullen Werwie said in an email that there had been no action taken to create the advisory groups. "We"re working on it,” he said. Cosh noted a news release issued by the Wisconsin Conservation Congress that says the group plans a new format for its annual meetings, which will take place April 9, 2012 in all 72 Wisconsin counties. The WCC advises the DNR on fish and game rules. The new format calls for a "town hall” portion of the meeting where citizens will be asked to "bring their ideas for regulation simplification and areas of conservation concern,” Conservation Congress Chairman Rob Bohmann said in a the release. "This year the WCC will still have advisory questions for citizen input and will take resolutions from citizens, but we are encouraging other user groups and conservation-minded individuals to come and engage in a county level conversation about issues facing Wisconsin"s natural resources,” he wrote. The conservation congress isn"t a new group. The organization is 77 years old -- one of the oldest groups of it's kind in the country. Former Democratic Gov. Patrick Lucey in 1972 signed legislation that formalized the group's role as a liaison between citizens, the Natural Resources Board and the DNR. For now, we'll move that promise to In the Works. Our Sources DNR Secretary Cathy Stepp on Wisconsin Eye, Aug. 30, 2011 PolitiFact Wisconsin, "Scott Walker says the DNR has mismanaged the state"s deer herd and lowered the deer population,” Oct. 24, 2010 Emails/interview Bill Cosh, spokesman, Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, Sept. 2 and 6 2011 Email, Chris Schrimpf, communications director for Gov. Scott Walker, Sept. 2, 2011 Email, Cullen Werwie, press secretary for  Gov. Scott Walker, Sept. 7, 2011 Wisconsin DNR web site Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization