Linc-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Oppose tax changes without reform of spending and mandates Lincoln Chafee "Chafee will oppose any changes to our taxes without first reforming our spending, particularly the mandates." All of the Linc-O-Meter Linc-O-Meter Not yet rated Lincoln Chafee By Peter Lord March 16, 2011 Chafee’s budget increases taxes but doesn’t address mandates Lincoln D. Chafee could not have been more clear on one issue he raised during his campaign for governor. He said he would oppose making any changes to state taxes without first reforming state spending, in particular state mandates requiring communities to spend their tax dollars to meet certain state standards. He made the pledge in interviews with reporters and, more specifically, in a "Budget Deficit” position paper on his campaign website: "Chafee wants to again point out that he will oppose any increases to our taxes without first reforming our spending, particularly the costly, and unfunded mandates on cities and towns. After we work to address the mandates, and cut government spending, then he suggests we review the idea of a two-tier sales tax if needed to close the budget gap.” Chafee did not state what mandates he wanted to address, but municipal officials have complained repeatedly about such things as requirements that they hire monitors for school buses that carry elementary students and that school nurses be certified teachers. On March 8, he delivered his first state budget, a $7.6-billion tax and spending plan. It included numerous new taxes in a proposed two-tier sales tax. Many formerly exempt items and services, such as hair cuts, clothing and drinking water, would be taxed, either at 1 percent or 6 percent, if the General Assembly approves the plan. Overall, the proposed budget is about $450 million less than the current budget, but it requires more than $200 million extra in state spending - largely due to reductions in federal stimulus grants. It also includes about $60 million in cuts from health and human services spending and $20 million more from other parts of state government. But it did not address mandates. When asked why Chafee proposed tax increases without addressing mandates, his spokesman, Christian Vareika said: "We believe that this question is really about timing.” He said the new taxes were necessary to "get Rhode Island"s fiscal house in order,” while cuts and reforming and reorganizing government will take longer. "It takes more than 70 days to develop a thoughtful, prudent approach to reform, and we believe that while the governor has made significant strides in cutting spending and reforming evaluation of services, to judge this promise at this point would be premature.” But it was the governor himself who set the order of priorities when he released his position paper. Chafee said he would reform spending and mandates and he would oppose new taxes until those tasks were completed. So by his own measure, we judge this Promise Broken. Our Sources Web site, "Lincoln Chafee for Governor,” Budget deficit position paper, March 14, 2011 Web site, "Governor Lincoln D. Chafee Unveils First Budget in Address to General Assembly,” March 8, 2011, accessed March 14, 2011 E-mail, Christian Vareika, Chafee spokesman, March 14, 2011 Web site, "An Act Relating to Making Appropriations for the Support of the State for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2010,” accessed March 15, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization