Deal-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Allow some Georgians to pool together to buy health insurance Nathan Deal Will allow some individuals in Georgia to pool with others to buy health insurance plans. All of the Deal-O-Meter Deal-O-Meter Not yet rated Nathan Deal By Eric Stirgus March 21, 2011 Deal proposal gets push from lawmakers Georgia representatives proposed legislation earlier this year that dovetailed quite nicely with a campaign promise made last year by Nathan Deal, now the state"s governor. The idea, spelled out in House Bill 476, is to allow Georgians to buy insurance plans that are more flexible -- and, perhaps, cheaper. Deal proposed during his campaign to allow Georgians to pool together on health insurance -- particularly small business owners. "I think that"s something we need to do in this state because what it will do is it will take those individuals ... to go into a pool and buy a policy at a reasonable price,” Deal said at a candidates forum in January 2010. The legislation would have created a commission to recommend an approach for setting up a health insurance exchange. It enjoyed wide support among lawmakers, particularly those who support private-sector health care choices for citizens and oppose the federal health care legislation that Democrats passed last year under President Barack Obama, which some critics describe as "Obamacare.” The support for HB 476 buckled last week when tea party leaders heard about it and quickly marshaled an army of their supporters who pressed Deal and other Republican leaders to withdraw the bill. Debbie Dooley, a leader in the Atlanta Tea Party and the Georgia Tea Party Patriots, wants Georgia leaders to continue to fight the federal law. "You don't win battles by waving the white flag with one hand and continuing to fight with the other hand," said Dooley, according to a report in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. GOP leaders agreed to withdraw the legislation from the House rules calendar and move it to the Rules Committee. Deal spokesman Brian Robinson said in a statement that the governor understood the concerns of Dooley and other tea party leaders. Deal plans to create an advisory committee to study the state's options for a health insurance exchange. When earlier legislation surfaced on this subject, we rated this campaign promise In The Works. Now that legislation has been withdrawn and Deal wants further study on this idea, this promise is Stalled. Our Sources House Bill 47 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, " Bill would allow sale of health care policies by out-of-state insurers ,” Jan. 18, 2011 YouTube, NFIB/Georgia Gubernatorial Candidates Forum, Part 1(Jobs) National Association of Health Underwriters, Consumer Guide to High-Risk Health Insurance Pools Telephone interview with state Rep. Matt Ramsey, Jan. 21, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization