Walk-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Have lieutenant governor lead statewide "small business roundtables" Scott Walker "To ensure that the state and Wisconsin businesses have an open and ongoing dialog on the state of the economy, I will empower my Lieutenant Governor to head regular small business roundtables in all corners of the state." All of the Walk-O-Meter Walk-O-Meter Not yet rated Scott Walker By Dave Umhoefer November 22, 2011 So far, 25 and counting Under the heading of "continuing dialogue with job creators,” Scott Walker as a candidate promised he would open direct lines of communication between his administration and businesses. Specifically, he promised to empower his lieutenant governor to "head regular small business roundtables in all corners of the state.” The meetings, Walker said on his campaign website , "will provide valuable information on the state of Wisconsin"s economy, a better understanding of the needs of Wisconsin businesses in real time, and vital intelligence on businesses that are looking to relocate.” Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch began the meetings in the first month of the administration. Since then, she has hosted discussions with small businesses in 25 municipalities, according to her official website and chief of staff Jeanne Tarantino. Among the hosts: the village of Suring in northeast Wisconsin; Milwaukee; Madison; La Crosse, Platteville, Tomah and Manitowoc. So the talks have spanned the state. In Eau Claire, Kleefisch toured a business-incubator site and met privately with about 30 people who spoke while Kleefisch jotted notes about their businesses, said Bob McCoy, president of the area"s chamber of commerce. The media was invited in for the last portion of the meeting. Several roundtable discussions have focused on women or minority-owned businesses, Tarantino said. Local chambers of commerce invite their members to attend and ask questions. Kleefisch moderates and information is exchanged, Tarantino said. Walker followed through on this pledge. This is a Promise Kept. Our Sources Interview with Jeanne Tarantino, chief of staff, Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch, Nov. 21, 2011 Scott Walker campaign website, jobs promises , accessed Nov. 22, 2011 Interview with Bob McCoy, president, Eau Claire Area Chamber of Commerce, Nov. 22, 2011 Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch, official website , accessed Nov. 21, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization