Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now End the use of torture Barack Obama "From both a moral standpoint and a practical standpoint, torture is wrong. Barack Obama will end the use torture without exception. He also will eliminate the practice of extreme rendition, where we outsource our torture to other countries." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Human Rights Foreign Policy Military Barack Obama By Louis Jacobson November 14, 2011 Wide agreement that Obama's torture ban has held During the presidential campaign, Barack Obama promised to "end the use torture without exception." Initially we gave him a rating of In the Works, but we are now ready to give him a Promise Kept. (We address the other part of this promise, on extraordinary rendition, in a separate item .) As we indicated the last time we looked at this question, Obama acted two days after taking office -- Jan. 22, 2009 -- by issuing a detailed executive order on torture and related issues. The executive order said that prisoners "shall in all circumstances be treated humanely and shall not be subjected to violence to life and person (including murder of all kinds, mutilation, cruel treatment, and torture), nor to outrages upon personal dignity (including humiliating and degrading treatment)." It also specifically nullifies interpretations of federal law on interrogations "issued by the Department of Justice between September 11, 2001, and January 20, 2009" under President George W. Bush. The executive order brings the CIA into line with U.S. Army Field Manual on Interrogation, said said Tom Malinowski, Washington director for Human Rights Watch. This limits interrogators to humane techniques, a standard that already applies as a matter of law to the U.S. military, he said. In addition, Obama "created a High Value Interrogation Group to manage the debriefing of the most important suspected terrorist captives using humane, non-coercive techniques," Malinowski said. "This doesn't mean that abuse never happens, but there is no policy of abuse any more, and there is strong leadership from the president on down to prevent it." Even the American Civil Liberties Union -- in a report that generally expressed skepticism about how much Obama had changed the Bush administration's policies on countering terrorism -- acknowledged that his actions on torture were strong. Some of the Bush-era policies "have been stopped," the report said. "Torture … (is) no longer officially condoned. … President Obama categorically disavowed torture when he came to office, and closed the secret CIA prisons where so much of the abuse took place." We rate this a Promise Kept. Our Sources White House, executive order on ensuring lawful interrogations , signed Jan. 22, 2009, accessed Jan. 27, 2009 American Civil Liberties Union, " A Call to Courage: Reclaiming Our Liberties Ten Years After 9/11 ," September 2011 E-mail interview with Tom Malinowski, Washington director for Human Rights Watch, Nov. 4, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan January 27, 2009 Obama signs executive order on torture On Jan. 22, 2009, President Obama signed a detailed executive order on torture and extreme rendition. The order said that prisoners "shall in all circumstances be treated humanely and shall not be subjected to violence to life and person (including murder of all kinds, mutilation, cruel treatment, and torture), nor to outrages upon personal dignity (including humiliating and degrading treatment)." It also specifically nullifies interpretations of federal law on interrogations "issued by the Department of Justice between September 11, 2001, and January 20, 2009." The order also creates a task force to study whether the procedures in the Army Field Manual are sufficient to protect the country and make recommendations on "additional or different guidance for other departments or agencies." The task force will also study and evaluate the transfer of prisoners to other nations, a process known as "extreme rendition." The task force is given six months to finish its work, with a possibility of extension. The order, worth reading in its entirety, also says the CIA shall not operate detention centers and should close "as expeditiously as possible" any centers it now operates. The International Committee of the Red Cross, an independent monitoring organization, should also be given timely access to prisoners, the order states. Obama has taken the first step toward fulfilling this promise, but there are still details to be worked out. So for now, we're moving this one to In the Works. Our Sources The White House Web site, executive order on ensuring lawful interrogations , signed Jan. 22, 2009, accessed Jan. 27, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization