Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Appoint an assistant to the president for science and technology policy Barack Obama "Will appoint an Assistant to the President for Science and Technology Policy who will report directly to the president, and be deeply involved in establishing research priorities that reflect the nation's needs based on the best available advice from experts around the country." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Science Technology Barack Obama By Angie Drobnic Holan May 13, 2009 Obama appoints Holdren as science adviser President Barack Obama appointed John P. Holdren to three different positions involving science. Holdren is assistant to the president for science and technology; the director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President; and co-chair of the President"s Council of Advisers on Science and Technology (PCAST). Holdren holds advanced degrees in aerospace engineering and theoretical plasma physics from MIT and Stanford University. Prior to his appointment, he was director of the Program on Science, Technology, and Public Policy at Harvard University"s Kennedy School of Government. He served concurrently as professor of environmental science and policy in Harvard"s Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences and as director of the independent, nonprofit Woods Hole Research Center. Holdren was confirmed by the Senate on March 19, 2009. Holdren gave one of his first extended interviews to National Public Radio on May 8, 2009. In the interview, he discussed his first task of establishing new guidelines for scientific integrity, as well as continuing the space missions of NASA, the challenges of global warming, swine flu, and the difficulties scientists have in their careers. He also took a question from a young-sounding caller on whether technology from Star Trek would one day be a reality. Holdren said the transporters ("Beam me up, Scottie!") would be difficult, while cloaking devices have seen advances. "There are lot of fabulous technologies in Star Trek ," Holdren said. "One of them is the fusion drive of the starship Enterprise . My own technical background, by the way, was in fusion science. I'd love to see that work. And I think we will have more investment in fusion over the years. And maybe we will ultimately have a fusion drive for starships." We rate this Promise Kept. Our Sources Office of Science and Technology Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy, Executive Office of the President, Holdren confirmed as director of OSTP , March 20, 2009 National Public Radio, Interview with John Holdren , May 8, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization