GOP Pledge-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Do away with the concept of ''comprehensive'' spending bills John Boehner Do away with the concept of ''comprehensive'' spending bills. "Let’s break them up, to encourage scrutiny, and make spending cuts easier. Rather than pairing agencies and departments together, let them come to the House floor individually, to be judged on their own merit. Members shouldn’t have to vote for big spending increases at the Labor Department in order to fund Health and Human Services. Members shouldn’t have to vote for big increases at the Commerce Department just because they support NASA. Each department and agency should justify itself each year to the full House and Senate, and be judged on its own." All of the GOP Pledge-O-Meter GOP Pledge-O-Meter Not yet rated John Boehner By Molly Moorhead August 10, 2012 Breaking up spending bills into smaller pieces? Didn't happen. Passing spending bills in Washington has become a near impossibility, with Republicans in the House and Democrats in the Senate locking horns over priorities. Not that Republicans in the House haven't tried. "The House has voted 11 of the 12 (spending bills) out of committee, but then only six of them have gotten to the floor and been passed,” said Steve Ellis, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense. (The Senate, for its part, has passed none.) But those bills look just like the omnibus spending bills of years past. "I don't think there was any real realignment in the structure or how the committees considered the bills,” Ellis said. "They didn't get to vote on NASA separate from the Department of Justice.” House Speaker John Boehner's idea to separate unrelated spending matters so they can be considered individually is a good one, Ellis said, but it poses practical challenges. "You want people to be able to speak about the issues, and you get a lot of agencies thrown together that don't have a lot in common but are voted on in the same package,” he said. "But there's a practical nature of this in that it is 12 different spending bills that you're voting on. They don't even get 12 done. Do we think they'd get 20? It's a tricky issue.” The gridlock in Washington might be largely to blame, but this idea hasn't materialized. We rate it a Promise Broken. Our Sources The Hill, " Speaker's proposal to break up funding bills abandoned by GOP ,” May 12, 2011 Email interview with Michael Steel, spokesman for John Boehner, Aug. 10, 2012 Interview with Steve Ellis, Taxpayers for Common Sense, Aug. 10, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization