Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Forbid companies in bankruptcy from giving executives bonuses Barack Obama "Protect the jobs and benefits of workers and retirees when corporations file for bankruptcy by telling companies that they cannot issue bonuses for executives during bankruptcy while their workers watch their pensions disappear." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Broken Bankruptcy Corporations Barack Obama By Louis Jacobson January 25, 2011 No sign of action on promise about executive bonuses The federal government creates the rules that govern bankruptcy, which is when people or businesses go to court to declare they are unable to pay their creditors. Barack Obama pledged during the campaign that he would get new rules created so that corporations in bankruptcy would not be able to give their executives bonuses. Such a restriction would have to be approved by Congress, but Congress has taken no action on the matter. So a year ago, we rated this promise Stalled. As we indicated in our previous update, the Obama administration has taken steps to limit bonuses in other ways. The government has moved to limit compensation for banks and auto companies that were bailed out by the government in 2008 and 2009. But that's a separate issue from bankruptcy rules. We asked the White House whether any progress was being made on this promise, and they were unable to provide any evidence that it was advancing. If any progress is made in the future, we'll change our rating, but after two years and with no sign of action, we're shifting this one to Promise Broken. Our Sources Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan January 6, 2010 No new rules on bankruptcy and bonuses The federal government creates the rules that govern bankruptcy, which is when people or businesses go to court to declare they are officially out of money. Barack Obama pledged during the campaign that he would get new rules created so that corporations in bankruptcy would not be able to give their executives bonuses. Such a restriction would have to be approved by Congress, but Congress has taken no action on the matter. In fact, legislation has not even been introduced. Samuel Gerdano, executive director of the American Bankruptcy Institute, confirmed the results of our search. The institute is an association for professionals including attorneys, judges, bankers and accountants who work on bankruptcy issues. Gerdano said similar legislation had been introduced in the previous Congress, in 2007, but no such legislation is pending now. The Obama administration has taken steps to limit bonuses in other ways. The government has moved to limit compensation for banks and auto companies that were bailed out by the government in 2008 and 2009. But that's a separate issue from bankruptcy rules. Because there's no movement to create the new rules, we rate this promise Stalled. Our Sources E-mail interview with Samuel Gerdano of the American Bankruptcy Institute Thomas, H.R. 3652 , introduced Sept. 25, 2007 The New York Times, Topics: Kenneth R. Feinberg (special pay master for rescued firms) Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization