GOP Pledge-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Work with state and local officials to enforce immigration laws John Boehner Will "reaffirm the authority of state and local law enforcement to assist in the enforcement of all federal immigration laws." All of the GOP Pledge-O-Meter GOP Pledge-O-Meter Not yet rated John Boehner By Becky Bowers January 8, 2013 House Republicans support state and local help enforcing immigration laws As the state of Arizona wrangled with the Justice Department in 2010 about its authority to help enforce federal immigration laws, the new House Republican majority sided with Arizona's governor. The Republicans said they would "reaffirm the authority of state and local law enforcement to assist in the enforcement of all federal immigration laws." (That was before the U.S. Supreme Court invalidated most parts o f the law in June 2012.) House lawmakers took action. Some of their most recent moves: • In March 2012, they held hearings on H.R. 3808, the Scott Gardner Act , which would have empowered state and local law enforcement pulling over drunk drivers to check immigration status and hold in custody "unlawfully present aliens.” The measure didn't make it to the House floor. • In May 2012, they amended an appropriations bill to try to stop the federal challenge to Arizona's law. It prohibited funding for the attorney general to challenge state immigration enforcement laws, not just in Arizona, but also in Oklahoma, Missouri, Utah, Indiana, Alabama, South Carolina and Georgia. The bill died in the Senate. • In June 2012, they amended a different appropriations bill , this time to protect a program that deputizes some state and local law enforcement officers to help with immigration enforcement. It prohibited funding from being used to terminate the program, known as 287(g) . That bill also died in the Senate. While those efforts to "reaffirm the authority” of state and local law enforcement failed, Congress continues to fund some programs that enlist state and local help. They come in two forms: • In the first type, some state and local officials are deputized to enforce federal immigration laws. That"s the case with the controversial 287(g) partnerships between U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and local agencies. (Critics argue they encourage racial profiling and discourage immigrants from reporting crime.) Congress funded them through continuing appropriations, said Chris Rickerd of the American Civil Liberties Union, though the Obama administration is winding down the most contentious "task force” partnerships. • Then there are programs that enlist state and local help arguably without ceding any real "authority.” Those include the Secure Communities program, under which fingerprints taken by local jurisdictions are shared with federal officials to be checked against immigration databases; Operation Stonegarden , a grant program to reimburse local law enforcement agencies for work along border areas; and the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program , which reimburses some local corrections systems for detaining people who are in the country illegally. Those are examples of congressional support for local and state law enforcement assistance, said Jessica Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for low levels of immigration.  But Rickerd of the American Civil Liberties Union, which opposed the Arizona law and 287(g), argues that since decisions about enforcement remain with federal agencies, the programs don't necessarily reaffirm any "authority” on the part of local officials. House Republicans in the 112th Congress promised to "reaffirm the authority of state and local law enforcement to assist in the enforcement of all federal immigration laws." Lawmakers made a series of attempts to do that, but efforts stalled or were rebuffed by the Senate. Still, Congress did reauthorize funding for several programs that enlist state and local participation in federal immigration enforcement. We rate this promise a Compromise. Our Sources Interview with Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies, Center for Immigration Studies, Jan. 8, 2013 Interview with Chris Rickerd, policy counsel, American Civil Liberties Union's Washington Legislative Office, Jan. 8, 2013 Interview with Gregory Chen, director of advocacy, American Immigration Lawyers Association, Jan. 4, 2013 Speaker.gov, " Keeping the Pledge to America: How Republicans Have Fought to Create Jobs, Cut Spending, & Change the Way Congress Does Business ," Sept. 20, 2012 Library of Congress' Thomas, " Homeland Security Appropriations Act ," accessed Nov. 20, 2012 Library of Congress' Thomas, " Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act ," accessed Jan. 8, 2013 Library of Congress' Thomas, " Scott Gardner Act ," accessed Jan. 8, 2013 Website of Rep. Robert Aderholt, " Aderholt Statement on Passage of Fiscal Year 2013 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill ," June 7, 2012 Department of Homeland Security, " Fact Sheet: Delegation of Immigration Authority Section 287(g) Immigration and Nationality Act ," accessed Jan. 4, 2013 Southern California Public Radio, " A phase-out for 287(g) immigration enforcement partnerships ,” Dec. 27, 2012 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, " Secure Communities ," accessed  Jan. 8, 2013 House Committee on the Judiciary, " Statement of Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement Hearing on: 'Is Secure Communities Keeping Our Communities Secure? '" Nov. 30, 2011 California Department of Justice, " Information Bulletin: Responsibilities of Local Law Enforcement Agencies under Secure Communities ," Dec. 2, 2012 Letter to Janet Napolitano and John Morton, " Re: End the 287(g) Immigration Enforcement Program ," Dec. 11, 2012 Justice Department's Bureau of Justice Assistance," State Criminal Alien Assistance Program ," accessed Jan. 8, 2013 Federal Emergency Management Agency, " FY 2012 Homeland Security Grant Program ," updated July 12, 2012 Justice Department, " Citing Conflict with Federal Law, Department of Justice Challenges Arizona Immigration Law ," July 6, 2010 State of Arizona, SB 1070 , signed April 23, 2010 Supreme Court, Arizona vs. United States , October 2011 ScotusBlog, " Arizona v. United States ," accessed Jan. 8, 2013 ScotusBlog, " S.B. 1070: In Plain English ,” June 25, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization