Buck-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Appoint a Director of Protocol, International Trade and Commerce with specific responsibilities Bob Buckhorn "He will appoint a Director of Protocol, International Trade and Commerce who will report directly to the mayor. This person will be charged with the following responsibilities: Serve as the Mayor’s point person for all international commerce activities; To reenergize the partnership of Tampa International Airport, the Port of Tampa, the city of Tampa, Hillsborough County and the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce to develop and expand our regional international trade efforts; Work to attract and identify locations for foreign consulates; Work with the Tampa Port Authority and the Florida Ports Council to expand the Port of Tampa’s infrastructure in order to allow the port to actively pursue significant container business; Work more closely with the Governor’s Office of Tourism, Trade and Economic Development and Enterprise Florida to participate in statewide international trade initiatives; Aggressively target, pursue and schedule trade missions led by the mayor and accompanied by regional partners and local Tampa Bay businesses; Assist the new director of Tampa International Airport (TIA) in pursuing more international flights for TIA." All of the Buck-O-Meter Buck-O-Meter Not yet rated Bob Buckhorn By Angie Drobnic Holan March 30, 2012 Mayor passes on new director, but international trade goals remain Mayor Bob Buckhorn was blunt in an interview with PolitiFact Florida when asked about his promise to create a new director of protocol and international trade. "I've decided I'm not going to do that,” he said. "In this economy, I didn't want to add additional personnel if I could avoid it.” Besides, an office already exists to do the job, the Tampa/Hillsborough International Protocol Office. Buckhorn said he wasn't aware of the office before he became mayor, but has been pleased with its efforts coordinating Tampa's relationships with the world. The office coordinates international visits on behalf of the city of Tampa and Hillsborough County, as well as the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, Hillsborough County Aviation Authority, Tampa Port Authority, Tampa Bay Convention and Visitors Bureau, the University of South Florida and the University of Tampa. Buckhorn singled out the office's director, Irma C. Bridgeford, for praise. "She is housed in the chamber's office, and she handles all of our protocol visits,” he said. "I didn't know her before I got over here and wasn't aware of what she was doing, but I've been very pleased with the professionalism she's brought to the table.” Buckhorn said he also personally works on efforts to lure international companies to Tampa through his seats on the aviation authority, the port authority, and the Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development (formerly the Committee of 100). Finally, Buckhorn said he might add a director of protocol later in his term if he thinks it's necessary. In ruling on this promise, we're reluctant to rate it Promise Broken, since Buckhorn is still pursuing the goal of bringing more international business to Tampa. He didn't appoint a director of protocol, but that's because another office already exists to coordinate international visits. All in all, we rate this promise Compromise. Our Sources Interview with Mayor Bob Buckhorn, Feb. 28, 2012 Tampa Hillsborough International Protocol Office , accessed March 29, 2012 Tampa Hillsborough Economic Development Corporation, accessed March 29, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization