Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Appoint at least one Republican to the cabinet Barack Obama Interview with Steve Kroft of "60 Minutes": Question: "Will there be Republicans in the Cabinet?" Obama: "Yes." Question: "More than one?" Obama: "You're not getting any more out of me." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Bipartisanship Barack Obama By Robert Farley January 13, 2009 One, maybe two By our reading, Obama only needed to appoint one Republican to his Cabinet to satisfy this promise — and he did. In a Dec. 1, 2008, news conference to announce his national security team, Obama said he asked Robert Gates to continue as secretary of defense. Gates has served under several Republican administrations, including as national security adviser and then director of central intelligence under the first President George Bush. At the news conference, Obama said of Gates, "He knows that we need a sustainable national security strategy — and that includes a bipartisan consensus at home." Case closed? Not so fast. Although numerous media outlets have identified Gates as a Republican, he actually is not registered with either party. In a Pentagon news conference on Dec. 2, 2008, Gates was asked to "clear up" his party affiliation. "I felt, when I was at CIA, that as a professional intelligence officer, like a military officer, I should be apolitical, and so I didn't register with a party," Gates explained. "I consider myself a Republican. Until yesterday, all of my senior appointments have been under Republican presidents." While that still left Obama technically one Republican short in his Cabinet, he put the issue to  rest on Dec. 19 when he nominated Ray LaHood, a former congressman from Illinois, to serve as his secretary of transportation. LaHood is a no-doubt-about-it Republican. In fact, he presided over the impeachment vote against President Bill Clinton. Heck, his son, Sam LaHood, worked on the McCain campaign. "When I began this appointment process I said I was committed to finding the best person for the job regardless of party," Obama said at the Dec. 19 news conference. "Ray's appointment reflects that bipartisan spirit, the spirit we need to reclaim in the country to make progress for the American people, and a spirit that Ray has embodied in all of his years in public service." Whether Obama has embraced a "bipartisan spirit" in his Cabinet picks is debatable. It is overwhelmingly Democratic. But he only promised at least one Republican. And by our count it's at least one, plus one with an asterisk. Promise kept. Our Sources U.S. Department of Defense, Media Roundtable with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates from the Pentagon Briefing Room , Arlington, Va., Dec. 2, 2008 Change.gov, the Office of the President-Elect, Obama's National Security Team press conference , Dec. 1, 2008 CNN, "Transcript: Obama Nominates Transportation & Labor Secretaries," Dec. 19, 2008 Wall Street Journal, "Obama Will be Hands-On Chief," Jan. 13, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization