Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Spend $5 billion over three years on cooperative programs with foreign intelligence agencies Barack Obama "Overseas, Barack Obama will establish a Shared Security Partnership Program to invest $5 billion over three years to improve cooperation between U.S. and foreign intelligence and law enforcement agencies. This program will include information sharing, funding for training, operations, border security, anti-corruption programs, technology, and the targeting of terrorist financing. And this effort will focus on helping our partners succeed without repressive tactics, because brutality breeds terror, it does not defeat it." All of the Obameter Obameter Compromise Foreign Policy Technology Terrorism Barack Obama By Molly Moorhead December 19, 2012 Partnership up and running, but funding is unclear When President Barack Obama announced he would create the Shared Security Partnership, he pledged to spend a specific amount of money -- $5 billion -- on a broad array of interests. The partnership was meant to fund everything from law enforcement training to border security to technology, and it's clear that money is being invested in those areas. But the partnership itself is a vague entity, referenced in public documents but lacking a specific budget of its own. "It clearly does exist, but there's very little information about what it is," said Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a conservative think tank focusing on national security issues. Gartenstein-Ross, who has done consulting work under both Obama and President George W. Bush on national security issues, said the partnership appears to be a new name applied to measures that were already in place when Obama took office. "They're really very much in line with multiple other things that had already been in place," he said, citing the Department of State's Antiterrorism Assistance Program as an example of ongoing work. "I don't see a marked increase in these kind of cooperation measures." We searched House committee reports on appropriations bills and found references to the Shared Security Partnership, as well as a few mentions in State Department budget documents. The State Department's 2012 budget notes that the partnership is "a multi-year, multi-agency initiative to address a wide array of existing threats to U.S. national security posed by terrorist organizations." One function: "to forge strategic partnerships for confronting common global extremist threats by strengthening law enforcement efforts, creating an infrastructure of information-sharing and coordination, and developing bilateral, regional, and global partnerships." The "multi-year, multi-agency" nature of the program is what makes its funding difficult to track. Our inquiries to the State Department and White House went unanswered. The State Department's 2013 budget summary includes a $24 million allocation for international law enforcement academies. In addition, the summary says, "Funds made available to support the Shared Security Partnership (SSP) initiative will be utilized to support emerging regional security priorities in West Africa as well other high threat regions to enhance regional and local-level criminal justice institutions," the summary says. A House report on a 2010 State Department appropriations bill dictated Shared Security Partnership funds be disbursed in Africa. • $37 million for International Law Enforcement Academies, with $17 million in SSP funds • $21 million for the Trans-Sahara Counter-Terrorism Partnership, including $3.3 million in SSP funds • $13.6 million for the State Department's Africa regional presence, with $6.1 million in SSP funds "We know for certain that money is being spent in these areas. What is less than clear is what would act count in the Shared Security Partnership program," said Gartenstein-Ross. "It's kind of fuzzy accounting, and it's not clear how much is new." What's also not clear: Whether Obama's $5 billion threshold has been met. So for now, we rate this a Compromise. Our Sources Interview with Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Dec. 18, 2012 Department of State website, Antiterrorism Assistance Program , accessed Dec. 19, 2012 Department of State, 2013 Executive Budget Summary , accessed Dec. 19, 2012 Department of State, 2012 Budget Request , accessed Dec. 19, 2012 House Appropriations Committee report, June 26, 2009, via CQ.com Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Robert Farley January 6, 2010 Money in budget to launch the Shared Security Partnership The Obama administration's proposed 2010 State Department budget included $90  million "to launch a new multi-year effort to help address the wide array of  threats posed by terrorist organizations." In a statement before the  House Foreign Affairs Committee on May 13, 2009, Jacob J. Lew, deputy secretary  of State Management and Resources, said, "the Shared Security Partnership will  allow the United States to forge strategic partnerships with allies to confront  common global extremist threats, building on previous law enforcement and  counter-terrorist efforts to create a regional and global information-sharing  and coordination infrastructure." On Dec. 9, 2009, the U.S. Department of  State's Counterterrorism Office issued a statement on the Obama administration's  international counterterrorism policy in which it discussed the successes of the  25-year-old Antiterrorism Assistance Program, and said it is "just one of many  programs -- on the civilian and the military sides of the house -- that is  increasing the ability of others to ensure their own security. With this kind of  work, we are making real the president's vision of shared security partnerships  as an essential part of U.S. foreign policy. This is both good counterterrorism  and good statecraft. We are addressing the state insufficiencies that terrorism  lives on, and we are helping invest our partners more effectively in confronting  the threat -- rather than looking thousands of miles away for help or simply  looking away altogether." This is a multiyear project, but Obama has at  least set it in motion. And so we move it to In the Works. Our Sources Library of Congress, House Report - State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, 2010 U.S. Department of State Web site, Jacob J. Lew, Deputy Secretary of State Management and Resources, Statement Before House Foreign Affairs Committee , May 13, 2009 U.S. Department of State, Overview of the Congressional Budget Justification Foreign Operations, Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Request U.S. Department of State, International Affairs - FY 2010 Budget , May 8, 2009 US Fed News, U.S. Department of State's Counterterrorism Office statement on International Terrorism Policy in Obama Administration, Dec. 10, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization