Buck-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Coordinate waterfront development Bob Buckhorn "If Tampa intends to make its waterfront a central focus of downtown urban planning, the development of the entire waterfront must be a coordinated, citywide effort. As mayor, Bob Buckhorn will immediately bring together economic development, business, housing and environmental stakeholders to develop a complete Development Master Plan designed to make the best possible use of all of Tampa’s waterfront areas and the surrounding neighborhoods. A financing plan to complete the Riverwalk and an aggressive marketing plan to program the use of our riverfront venues will be included." All of the Buck-O-Meter Buck-O-Meter Not yet rated Bob Buckhorn By Richard Danielson March 30, 2012 Not a lot of waterfront development, but plenty of systematic thinking Candidate Bob Buckhorn promised to make Tampa's waterfront a central focus of his administration. Mayor Buckhorn has done just that. Buckhorn talks all the time about the importance of the Hillsborough River and predicts that one day the riverfront will be the center of downtown, not its western edge. "I'm absolutely convinced that in 10 years when we get done with this planning process and as things start to fill in, that our downtown will be radically different -- radically different -- than what we know now,” he told the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce on March 21. "It will be spread on both sides of the river, there will be live-work-and-play environments on the west bank that will go right from the river all the way to Howard and Armenia” avenues. Much of that planning is taking place through an ongoing effort facilitated by the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit education and research group based in Washington, D.C. Since October, the institute has twice sent groups of experts on real estate development, urban planning, development and related fields to Tampa. In October, one ULI panel gave the city a wide-ranging set of recommendations on improving its downtown, including the river. In February, a second group came and focused on the potential of the river in more detail. That second group recommended moving the tenants out and demolishing the 682 apartments of the aging North Boulevard Homes public housing complex to create a 40-acre riverfront site for mixed-use, mixed-income development. The ULI panel focused on a 140-acre area mainly on the south and west bank of the river, north of Interstate 275 and east of Rome Avenue. It has 7,200 feet of river frontage, and more than 80 percent of it is owned by the city, Hillsborough County, School Board or Tampa Housing Authority. In addition to redeveloping North Boulevard Homes, the group suggested: • Redeveloping the city's 12-acre wastewater vehicle yard near the river, an idea Buckhorn likes. • Increasing the density of new housing built in the area from the current 20 to 25 units an acre to at least 60 units an acre. The panel said this change would attract private investment and the kind of stores and services that residents want in a new neighborhood. • Creating more public access points to the river. • Capitalizing on immediate opportunities to make the riverfront more active and inviting, such as establishing a farmer's market, incorporating the area into the activities of college rowing teams that already visit Tampa or bringing live performances to the amphitheater at Julian B. Lane Riverfront Park. At meetings where the Urban Land Institute has presented its findings, the city has brought together local officials, property owners, neighborhood representatives, developers and real estate professionals to participate in the discussion. There's more: Buckhorn also is pursuing federal funding to finish the Riverwalk. He has brought new programs, like the Mayor's River O'Green Fest on St. Patrick's Day, to Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park. And he is working with a private sector developer in an attempt to redevelop the city's historic Water Works Building as a riverfront restaurant. As a candidate, Buckhorn promised a focus on the waterfront and a coordinated approach to development there. While there hasn't been a lot of development so far, Buckhorn has hit virtually every point of his plan. Together, his efforts add up to a Promise Kept. Our Sources Interview with Mayor Bob Buckhorn, Feb. 28, 2012 Mayor Bob Buckhorn speech to the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, March 21, 2012 Tampa Bay Times , Tampa riverfront's future lies in redevelopment , study suggests, Feb. 11, 2012 Tampa Bay Times , For a downtown Tampa with a soul, experts recommend a turn away from the car culture , Oct. 15, 2011 Tampa Bay Times , Tampa will try again for federal grant to finish Riverwalk , Jan. 26, 2012 Tampa Bay Times , Tampa to dye part of Hillsborough River green for St. Patrick's Day , Feb. 22, 2012 Tampa Bay Times , Columbia Restaurant owner picked to renovate Tampa's historic Water Works Building , Jan. 26, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization