Krise-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Have new pier built by end of 2015 Rick Kriseman Q: Do you support or oppose the ballot question that would cancel the contract for the new Pier, and why? If voters approve the ballot question and the contract is canceled, what should the city do next? A: "My goal would be for the designs to be reviewed, narrowed down, and sent to council by September of 2014. In short, I will: Get to work on November 6th on appointing a new task force (with cooperation from the current administration). Instruct the task force to complete their work within the first three months of my administration. Ensure that we have a final design in place within the first nine months of my administration, and work with the architect to have the new pier built by the end of 2015." All of the Krise-O-Meter Krise-O-Meter Not yet rated Rick Kriseman By Joshua Gillin May 15, 2014 Kriseman's new timeline adds two years Rick Kriseman's promise to deal with the fate of St. Petersburg's pier quickly and efficiently was one of his biggest platform planks -- even before the public voted down the proposed replacement design, known as the Lens. In a July 2013 questionnaire from the Tampa Bay Times , mayoral candidate Kriseman laid out his plan for how to replace the aging structure, should the public referendum cancel the city's contract to build the Lens. Kriseman was a vocal opponent of the design, which was eventually booted by voters in the August primary election. Among his promises surrounding the pier, Kriseman said he would "work with the architect to have the new pier built by the end of 2015." Fast-forward to May 2014. Having just appointed his "working group" to gather input on a new design and giving them a deadline of three months to submit their findings, Kriseman announced his new timeline for the pier. After the recommendations are turned in, five to eight architectural and engineering firms would submit bids. The public would pick their three favorites in a nonbinding vote. Kriseman would choose one of the three and propose it to the city council, which would then vote on a contract. Construction would begin in 2016. The new pier is now slated for completion in 2017, two years later than originally promised. Because the timeline has been significantly extended, we rate this a Promise Broken. Our Sources Tampa Bay Times, candidate questionnaire , July 2013 Tampa Bay Times , " Kriseman announces plan for new or renovated St. Petersburg Pier ," May 1, 2014 Tampa Bay Times , " St. Petersburg begins process of selecting new pier ," May 11, 2014 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization