Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Expand eligibility for State Children's Health Insurance Fund (SCHIP) Barack Obama "Expand eligibility for the Medicaid and SCHIP programs and ensure that these programs continue to serve their critical safety net function." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Medicaid Barack Obama By Angie Drobnic Holan February 4, 2009 Obama signs SCHIP Back in 2007, President Bush twice vetoed legislation expanding SCHIP, a health insurance program for low-income children. Democrats vowed it would be one of the first things they addressed under a new administration. On Feb. 4, 2009, President Obama signed a new SCHIP law. "I refuse to accept that millions of our kids fail to reach their full potential because we fail to meet their basic needs," Obama said at the signing ceremony. "In a decent society, there are certain obligations that are not subject to tradeoffs or negotiation — health care for our children is one of those obligations." Promise Kept. Our Sources White House Web site, CHIP , accessed Feb. 4, 2009 Thomas, SCHIP legislation , accessed Feb. 4, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan January 18, 2009 House passes SCHIP Even before Obama took office, the House of Representatives approved an expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). It passed, 289-139, on Jan. 14, 2009. Obama praised the vote and said he wants SCHIP to be "one of the first measures I sign into law when I am president." If it passes the Senate, he'll get his wish. We rate this promise In the Works. Our Sources U.S. House of Representatives, Roll call vote for SCHIP , Jan. 14, 2009 Washington Post, " House Votes to Expand Child Health Insurance ," Jan. 14, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization