GOP Pledge-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Fund weapons research Eric Cantor "We will once again fund weapons’ research and development not just to meet the threats of today, but those of tomorrow." All of the GOP Pledge-O-Meter GOP Pledge-O-Meter Not yet rated Eric Cantor By Molly Moorhead August 24, 2012 Funding provided, but sequester looms In a national security speech at the conservative think tank Heritage Foundation, Eric Cantor made the case for why Republicans needed to be in charge in Washington. That was in May 2010. Five months later, voters delivered them a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. Cantor, who became House Majority Leader, described President Barack Obama as unsteady when confronting enemies and uncommitted to our allies. "Congress is charged with the responsibility to raise and support Armies, to provide and maintain a Navy,” Cantor said . "It is time for conservatives who believe in peace through strength and the righteousness of our cause to stand up -- to serve as a check and balance on the administration's policies. ... We will once again fund weapons research and development not just to meet the threats of today, but those of tomorrow.” We talked to Todd Harrison, a fellow with the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, for some insights on defense research funding. He said that for fiscal year 2011, the Obama administration requested $76.1 billion for "research, development, tests and evaluations.” Congress gave him more -- $80 billion. But for FY 2012, the president requested $71.4 billion, and Congress appropriated $75 billion. Over the two years, the requests and the appropriations are a wash. We realize Cantor's promise was vague, and it was curious wording to say those efforts would be funded "once again.” "It's always had some funding,” Harrison said. "In some years they've gotten more. In the past year they got less.” We found no evidence that weapons research is currently under-funded, but it's worth noting the implications of sequestration, should that take effect in 2013. During debt-ceiling negotiations in the summer of 2011, Congress and Obama came to a hard-fought agreement to raise the nation's debt limit but establish a supercommittee to come up with solutions for cutting the deficit. The agreement said that if the supercommittee failed, more than $100 billion in mandatory cuts – half from the military, half from domestic programs -- would take effect. Well, the supercommittee did fail, and now those cuts (the sequestration) are looming unless Congress and the White House act again. A $50 billion cut in defense spending overall would surely eat into research funding, and that's the agreement House Republicans signed onto . Republicans have said they hope to see the defense cuts restored, but no deal has been worked out yet. It's possible that ending the sequester will be a problem left to the next Congress. Overall, we rate this a Compromise. Our Sources Heritage Foundation blog, " Rep. Eric Cantor Speaks on National Security ,” May 4, 2010 Interview with Todd Harrison, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Aug. 20, 2012 House roll call vote on Budget Control Act, Aug. 1, 2011 Washington Post, "Zients: Sequestration 'not the responsible way' to cut debt,” Aug. 2, 2012, via Nexis Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization