Perry-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Require active monitoring of high-risk sex offenders for three years on release from prison Rick Perry "The governor also is proposing legislation requiring the active monitoring of high-risk sex offenders using tracking technology as part of the sex offender's sentence, and requiring all high-risk registered sex offenders who have served their entire prison sentence be actively monitored for three years upon release from prison." All of the Perry-O-Meter Perry-O-Meter Not yet rated Rick Perry By W. Gardner Selby November 23, 2012 Lawmakers did not approve GPS monitoring of certain sex offenders In 2010, Gov. Rick Perry called for a law requiring the state to closely track "high-risk sex offenders” after their release from prison. According to a Sept. 27, 2010, press release from his office, Perry proposed legislation requiring the monitoring of such offenders using tracking technology as part of each offender's sentence, and requiring all high-risk registered sex offenders who have served their prison sentence to be monitored for three years. Asked about this promise, which we had yet to rate, Perry spokeswoman Catherine Frazier told us that legislation cleared the Texas House in 2011, but did not progress further. By email, Frazier said that House Bill 3001 by state Rep. Senfronia Thompson, D-Houston, which cleared the House in May 2011 before dying in a Senate committee, contained provisions for GPS monitoring of sex offenders. The failed proposal would have required the Department of Public Safety to coordinate a monitoring system tracking the location of high-risk sex offenders released from prison by employing equipment, enabling a local police department to track, and periodically report to the state, the offender"s location. Ten years after being released from prison, a participant could petition to be exempted from the monitoring, the proposal said. It would have been a third-degree felony for an offender not to participate in the monitoring. The first year of implementation was projected to cost more than $1.2 million. Also, according to the legislation"s fiscal note, the annual release of 192 high-risk sex offenders from prison into the program was projected to cost $3,781 per offender. Half the offenders would pay for their own monitoring, according to the fiscal note , but indigent offenders would not have been required to cover the costs. We rate this as a Promise Broken. Our Sources Press release, Gov. Rick Perry, "Gov. Perry Announces Steps to Increase Monitoring, Punishment of Sex Offenders," Sept. 27, 2010 Email (excerpted), response to PolitiFact Texas, Catherine Frazier, then-deputy press secretary, Gov. Rick Perry, July 7, 2011 Legislation, 2011 Texas Legislature, House Bill 3001 by Rep. Senfronia Thompson, Houston (accessed Nov. 8, 2012) Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization