Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Promote more pre-school education Barack Obama "Will provide critical support to young children and their parents. Unlike other early childhood education plans...places key emphasis at early care and education for infants, which is essential for children to be ready to enter kindergarten. Obama and Biden will create Early Learning Challenge Grants to promote state "zero to five" efforts and help states move toward voluntary, universal pre-school." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Education Barack Obama By Molly Moorhead February 2, 2012 Money, guidelines dedicated to pre-school In December 2011, the Department of Education awarded nine states a total of $500 million in Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge grants. The program's goals include "aligning and raising standards for existing early learning and development programs; improving training and support for the early learning workforce through evidence-based practices; and building robust evaluation systems that promote effective practices and programs to help parents make informed decisions," according to a department press release . The Obama campaign pointed us to additional areas where the administration has been promoting preschool education. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, better known as the stimulus bill, funnelled an extra $2 billion into Head Start and Early Head Start, which serve preschoolers as well as pregnant women, infants and toddlers. The money served purposes such as upgrading classrooms, improving transportation programs and improving staff pay and training. The White House said in a press release that the money enabled the programs to serve an additional 61,000 children. The Obama administration also announced new standards in November 2011 for low-performing Head Start grantees, requiring them to compete for funding. "Under the new rules, programs that fall short of quality benchmarks will have to compete. We will put out a notice to all early education providers in their communities: If you can do better, you'll get the Head Start funding," Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius wrote on the White House blog . We asked some outside groups for their evaluation of Obama"s work in promoting preschool. W. Steven Barnett, director of the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University, said for the most part the changes have been positive. "They have created an Office at the U.S. Department of Education, something that was greatly needed, and instituted re-competition for Head Start grants based on performance for the first time ever. Funding has been increased for Early Head Start and Head Start, and Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge is a substantive financial commitment in education, again with an emphasis on competition. So they have committed more resources, but they did not provide more money for business as usual--this is a pay for performance approach," Barnett wrote in an email. But he questioned the selection of states that won the Early Learning Challenge grants. "Whether the best states were selected for Race to the Top is another question, and there we are not so pleased," he wrote. "However, if the administration follows up and requires states to keep the promises they made to get the grants (as they are doing with the original Race to the Top) then perhaps it is wise to have some poor performers on board." Obama has fulfilled his pledge to promote more preschool education both by dedicating substantial money in the form of state grants and by revising guidelines to improve quality. This warrants a Promise Kept. Our Sources Department of Education press release, " We Can't Wait: Nine States Awarded Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge Grants ," Dec. 16, 2011 Department of Health and Human Services website, " Head Start, Early Head Start Programs Received Over $2 Billion in Recovery Act Funding ," accessed Feb. 1, 2012 WhiteHouse.gov, " We Can't Wait: President Obama Takes Action to Improve Quality and Promote Accountability in Head Start Programs ," Nov. 8, 2011 White House blog, " Our Children Can't Wait: New Regulations Increase Accountability and Boost Quality in Head Start ," Nov. 8, 2011 Email interview with W. Steven Barnett, National Institute for Early Education Research , Feb. 1, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Robert Farley November 13, 2009 Grant program promotes pre-school education President Barack Obama has packed a number of his campaign promises related to  education into his "Race to the Top" program, which seeks to encourage  innovative approaches to teaching and learning by having states compete for  $4.35 billion worth of grants from the Department of Education. The program was  funded through the Obama-backed economic stimulus package approved by Congress  in February. The grant program lists six priorities, and the third is  "Innovations for Improving Early Learning Outcomes." According to an  executive summary of the Race the the Top Program from the Department of  Education, "The Secretary is particularly interested in applications that  include practices, strategies, or programs to improve educational outcomes for  high-need students who are young children (pre-kindergarten through third grade)  by enhancing the quality of preschool programs. Of particular interest are  proposals that support practices that improve school readiness (including  social, emotional, and cognitive); and improve the transition between preschool  and kindergarten." That speaks directly to this Obama campaign  promise. Competition for the "Race to the Top" grants will be conducted  in two rounds -- the first starting this month and the second in June of next  year -- with winners announced in April and September 2010. Still,  President Obama has set up the framework to achieve this promise. And so we move  it to In the Works. Our Sources Department of Education, Race to the Top Executive Summary , November, 2009 Department of Education, Press release: "President Obama, U.S. Secretary of Education Duncan Announce  National Competition to Advance School Reform," July 24, 2009 Department of Education, "Race to  the Top Fund" Department of Education, "Race to the Top Fund; State Fiscal Stabilization Fund Program;  Institute of Education Sciences; Overview Information; Grant Program for  Statewide Longitudinal Data Systems; Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards  Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of  2009" YouTube, President Obama on Race to the Top , July 24, 2009 Washington Post, Op-ed: "Education Reform's Moon Shot," by Arne Duncan, July 24, 2009 White House Web site, "Fact Sheet: The Race to the Top," Nov. 4, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization