Kitz-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Create 10-year budget plan John  Kitzhaber Will create a 10-year budget plan to offer clearer sense of state's priorities. All of the Kitz-O-Meter Kitz-O-Meter Not yet rated John  Kitzhaber By Janie Har October 4, 2013 Oregon, we have a 10-year budget vision It's hard enough planning for the next two years, but 10 years out? Yet that's what Gov. John Kitzhaber said we needed to do to get state leaders thinking both short- and long-term. The 2013-15 budget proposal he released earlier this year was the first to rely on a 10-year budget plan drawn up by his advisers. No longer will lawmakers focus solely on the task of balancing the revenue and expenditures of an agency over a two-year period. The idea is to get legislators thinking of the broader picture and goals. What does that mean? Let's take education. The amorphous overall goal is to make sure "every Oregonian has the knowledge, skills and credentials to succeed in life ."The methods to meet that goal are to make college more affordable, beef up work skills training, and so on. And we'll know when we've met the overall goal when all third graders are reading at grade level and 40 percent of students are acquiring bachelor's degrees. There are 15 agencies affected by this particular goal. From this, experts ferret out real dollar amounts for state programs.Other areas besides education are jobs and innovation, healthy people, healthy environment and, finally, safety. We asked George Naughton, Oregon' chief financial officer, whether we have a 10-year budget. He said no. There's no way lawmakers can cement a budget beyond the current two-year period, but they can be guided by a 10-year budgeting plan. It's unclear whether this method of budgeting will live beyond the Kitzhaber administration, but we give this a Promise Kept. Our Sources State of Oregon, " Building the Foundation for the Future ," April 2012 State of Oregon, " 10-year plan for Oregon " (accessed Sept. 12, 2013) State of Oregon, " 2013-15 Governor's Balanced Budget " Interview with George Naughton, Sept. 17, 2013 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Ian K. Kullgren January 6, 2012 The foundation seems set, but results are still a ways away While campaigning for governor in 2010, John Kitzhaber promised to pull Oregon out of its two-year budget cycle and get us looking ahead --10 years ahead.  The then-candidate told The Oregonian that he would create a 10-year budget plan to offer a clearer sense of the state's priorities. He"s been in office for a year now, so we thought it was time to check in on his progress. We talked to Steve Marks, a policy analyst at the state"s Department of Administrative Services, the bureau charged with spearheading this change, for the low down on what"s happened so far. The folks there set up some general budget categories. For example, Marks said, there"s a new category called "Livability,” which includes services like transportation and community development. The theory is that every program run by the Oregon Department of Transportation should advance long-term livability goals. To that end, the governor"s office is in the process of outlining some general, long term goals for the state. Ideally, Marks said, goals would be hammered out with lawmakers and public input, but to get the new model moving, the executive branch started things off. After the February 2012 legislative session, the governor will send out budget instructions to his departments, asking them to prepare budgets based on how they"ll help contribute to the 10-year goals, Marks said. This would be different from previous budgeting years in a number of ways, Marks said. Rather than continuing previous funding levels, departments will start with a blank slate. Next, the governor"s office will compare the agency's programs with newly created performance guidelines. This will all get worked into the governor"s budget for the 2013-2015 cycle, which is due in November. The biggest change, though, will come once that budget has been put into practice, he said. At the end of the two-year cycle, the governor"s office and the departments will review the programs and look at how they"re advancing the long-term goals and adjust future funding according to those findings. It"s likely, too, that the long-term plan will be refined and reworked based on the needs of the state. It"ll be at least another few months until we get a look at what, exactly, the governor"s 10-year plan has in store for Oregon -- and at least November before we know whether he and his staff actually come up with a 10-year plan. It"s also up to lawmakers to approve this new approach in the 2013 session; they have a huge impact on the process. For now, this is a promise In the Works. Our Sources The Oregonian, " Kitzhaber unveils school plan, hints at sales tax ,” Feb. 25, 2010 Interview with Steve Marks, policy analyst for the Department of Administrative Services, Dec. 5, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization