Kasich-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Revamp the state's collective bargaining law for public employees John Kasich Said striking public employees should be fired and that binding arbitration provisions from outside negotiators hurt financially-strapped cities. All of the Kasich-O-Meter Kasich-O-Meter Not yet rated John Kasich By Robert Higgs March 5, 2013 Kasich not talking about collective bargaining overhaul We haven"t examined Gov. John Kasich"s promise to revamp the state"s collective bargaining law since 2011, when he signed Senate Bill 5, the divisive law scaling back collective bargaining for public workers. It seemed like a good time to revisit that promise in view of this week"s strike by Strongsville public school teachers. Kasich, who championed Senate Bill 5, said before he took office that public employees who go on strike over labor disputes should automatically lose their jobs. Among Senate Bill 5"s many provisions was one that would have prohibited all public employees from striking. But the law never went into effect. Democrats and labor groups united in a referendum campaign, and Ohio voters responded by overwhelmingly repealing the law, which was on the ballot in November 2011 as Issue 2. "It"s clear the people have spoken,” the Republican governor said on election night. "I heard their voices. I understand their decision.” The following month, Kasich said he had accepted the defeat and had moved on to other issues. Since then, he has rarely, if ever, discussed the issue publicly, although he did support a bill last year allowing Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson to launch a reform plan for the Cleveland public schools. That plan includes some provisions reminiscent of Senate Bill 5, but they apply only to the Cleveland school district. For the most part, however, Kasich spent 2012 changing the subject from Senate Bill 5 and focusing on issues such as jobs, worker retraining, tax restructuring and other initiatives he hopes will help Ohio continue to rebound economically. When we asked Kasich"s office this week to comment about Senate Bill 5 in view of the Strongsville teachers strike, a spokesman declined our request. So as for the governor"s promise to revamp the state"s collective bargaining law, which had been rated as In the Works, we"ll move the dial to Stalled. Our Sources The Plain Dealer via cleveland.com, " Ohio voters overwhelmingly reject Issue 2, dealing a blow to Gov. John Kasich ,” Nov. 8, 2011 The Plain Dealer via cleveland.com, " Fixing Ohio"s economy still drives Gov. John Kasich"s agenda as he looks ahead to next year and reflects on first year in office ,” Dec. 19, 2011 The Plain Dealer via cleveland.com, " Democrats hope last year"s Senate Bill 5 still relevant for this year"s presidential race ,” June 15, 2012 The Plain Dealer via cleveland.com, " Gov . John Kasich to sign Cleveland schools bill built through collaboration ,” July 2, 2012 The Plain Dealer via cleveland.com, " Pugnacious or pragmatic? Social issues could decide which Gov. John Kasich emerges in 2013: Analysis ,” Dec. 15, 2012 The Plain Dealer via cleveland.com, " Jobs, reform and the Ohio Turnpike: What a John Kasich-Ed FitzGerald battle might look like ,” Jan. 12, 2013 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Mark Naymik April 1, 2011 Kasich signs collective bargaining overhaul bill Gov. John Kasich has made it clear that dismantling Ohio"s nearly 30-year-old collective bargaining law will be a top priority of his administration. He has repeatedly called for the elimination of  binding arbitration, often used to settle police and fire department salary and benefits disputes that he says are costly and bankrupting cities. "You are forcing increased taxes on taxpayers with them having no say,” Kasich said in December before he took office. Kasich also said that public employees who go on strike over labor disputes should automatically lose their jobs. "If they want to strike, they should be fired,” Kasich said last year. "I really don't favor the right to strike by any public employee. They've got good jobs, they've got high pay, they get good benefits, a great retirement. What are they striking for?” The Republican governor on Thursday signed Senate Bill 5, a GOP-sponsored measure introduced this year that scales back collective bargaining for public workers. Among other things, the bill eliminates binding arbitration and prohibits all public employees from striking. Democratic and union leaders, who have staged protests at the Statehouse with thousands of workers, have condemned the bill as an attack on the middle class and have vowed to overturn it. But Kasich, whose recently unveiled budget proposal slashes state aid to local governments, has promoted the legislation as a tool for communities to cut costs and maintain services. Based on the bill"s approval, we move the Kasich-O- Meter for this promise to In the Works. Our Sources Sources: The Plain Dealer, "Ohio Senate Republicans pass collective bargaining overhaul by narrowest margin; bill moves to the Ohio House," March 2, 2011 The Plain Dealer, " Controversial Ohio collective bargaining bill heads toward final approval ,” March 29, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization