Perry-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Ensure Legislature acts on a proposal requiring voters to present photo IDs Rick Perry "This next session of the Legislature ... One thing they (lawmakers) do understand and that is the governor has the ability to keep them in town until they address some issues. So I guess I might as well put them on notice today: We're going to do voter ID in 2011. We can either do it early, or we can do it late. Their call." All of the Perry-O-Meter Perry-O-Meter Not yet rated Rick Perry By Meghan Ashford-Grooms May 19, 2011 Voter ID bill on Perry's desk Fifteen months after Gov. Rick Perry said he would make sure the 2011 Legislature acted on a voter ID proposal, a measure approved by lawmakers awaits his signature. In January, we rated his promise In the Works after Perry placed the issue on the fast track by declaring it an emergency. Perry spokeswoman Catherine Frazier told the Austin American-Statesman that voter ID was "unfinished business from last session." In 2009, some House Democrats killed the legislation by slowing action on other proposals. Since January, versions of the latest proposal requiring Texas voters to show an acceptable government-issued ID at the polls have twice cleared the House and Senate. The Senate got the debate going early, approving Republican Sen. Troy Fraser's bill along party lines Jan. 26. Democrats argued that the legislation would make it more difficult for some minorities and disabled Texans to vote. Republicans said the change was necessary to combat voter fraud. The House followed on March 23, two days after the Democrats used a procedural maneuver to delay the vote. Members approved the legislation after more than 11 hours of debate. Minor differences in the two chamber's bills were resolved by a House-Senate conference committee, and during the negotiations, lawmakers agreed to allow Texans with no valid ID to vote with a new form, called an election identification certificate, that will be issued by the Department of Public Safety and can be used only for voting. In May, the two bodies signed off on the legislation's final version. Given that the House and Senate have finished action on voter ID, Perry's promise is Kept. Our Sources Austin American-Statesman, " Voter ID gets put on the fast track ," Jan. 21, 2011 Austin American-Statesman, " Voter ID fight took unexpected turn ," May 31, 2009 Texas Tribune, "Voter ID" topic page Austin American-Statesman, " Speedy Senate checks voter ID off list ," Jan. 26, 2011 Austin American-Statesman, " Emotional voter ID bill debate ends in passage ," March 23, 2011 Dallas Morning News, " Bill to require photo ID to vote in Texas on way to Gov. Rick Perry ," May 16, 2011 Texas Legislature Online, Senate Bill 14 , 2011 session Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Meghan Ashford-Grooms January 25, 2011 Perry hinted at overtime session if voter ID law not passed in 2011 regular session In a February video, Gov. Rick Perry promised to ensure that state lawmakers act on an issue that roiled the 2009 Legislature: whether to require voters to prove their identity at the polls. Perry, a proponent of such a rule, made the pledge in a video response to this question submitted by the Austin Tea Party Patriots: "How do you intend to lead as governor and encourage the Texas Legislature to avoid last session's stalemate and instead pass a solid Voter ID bill?" The video was posted online July 28, and we spotted it, with help from Perry's office, this week. Perry began his answer with a caveat: "I don't think a governor ... can force the Legislature to do anything." But later, hinting at his authority to call special sessions, he said, "I guess I might as well put (lawmakers) on notice today: We're going to do voter ID in 2011. We can either do it early, or we can do it late. Their call." Perry has two clear-cut ways to influence what issues and proposals the Legislature takes up. One is to call a special session, for which he specifies the agenda. Another way is to declare an issue an emergency item for a regular session, which effectively places legislation on the fast track. Perry did just that on Jan. 20, 2011, making "legislation to require a voter to present proof of identification when voting" an emergency item for the session. The Texas Senate was debating the voter ID issue as we posted this update. We rate this promise In the Works. Our Sources Gov. Rick Perry, "Gov. Perry Adds Voter I.D. and Balance Budget Amendment to Emergency Items for Legislative Session," Jan. 20, 2011 Austin American-Statesman, news article, "Voter ID gains momentum from Perry, Dewhurst," Jan. 20, 2011 Austin Tea Party Patriots, "2010 Virtual Gubernatorial Debate Between Rick Perry and Bill White," #6 — Voter ID, posted July 28, 2010 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization