Linc-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Direct Economic Development Corporation to develop plans for small and medium size businesses Lincoln Chafee "I will instruct the director of the EDC to develop a small and medium size business service plan within 30 days." All of the Linc-O-Meter Linc-O-Meter Not yet rated Lincoln Chafee By C. Eugene Emery Jr. February 8, 2011 Chafee asks commission for plan to help small businesses While big businesses often get the headlines, smaller businesses can be the lifeblood of a community. So Lincoln Chafee, during his campaign for governor, promised to work quickly to try to help promote such businesses and help them grow . On his campaign website, he pledged: "I will instruct the director of the EDC [the Economic Development Corporation] to develop a small and medium size business service plan within 30 days." It"s been more than 30 days since Chafee was inaugurated, so we decided to check whether he kept this promise. The time frame for fulfilling that promise is ambiguous. We read it as saying that Chafee was going to give the EDC 30 days to come up with a plan. "Our reading was [that] within 30 days, we would issue the directive," said Chafee spokesman Michael Trainor. Regardless of the interpretation, the Chafee administration has now sent a letter to EDC Executive Director Keith Stokes, whom Chafee recently decided to retain, asking him to develop  "a small to medium-size business service plan and create a long-term, entrepreneur-focused growth strategy." The directive is based on the premise that "Rhode Island relies on small businesses to be catalysts of economic growth and job creation." It urges the corporation to ask small business owners what services and support they need most; distribute an up-to-date list of all the services available to small business owners; explore the idea of offering industry-specific information to businesses; and provide "market data and other statistics to assist small business owners as they look to expand their operations." In addition to developing a plan for small- to medium-sized businesses, it asks the EDC to "create a long-term, entrepreneur-focused growth strategy." There is no deadline for reporting back to the governor. The letter, at first glance, seems to fulfill the promise. It is dated Feb. 2, Chafee's 30th day in office. However, it wasn't mailed out until the morning of Feb. 4, two days after the self-imposed deadline. Two days seemed close enough to us. Promise Kept. Our Sources ChafeeForGovernor.com, " The First One Hundred Days Plan for Jobs, " accessed Jan. 20, 2011 Interview, Michael Trainor, spokesman for Gov. Lincoln Chafee, Feb. 4, 2011 E-mail, Christian Vareika, office of Gov. Lincoln Chafee, Feb. 4, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization