Haslam-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Create academic leadership academy Bill Haslam Will develop a statewide leadership academy with a "focus on improving the leadership development pipeline so that the best candidates are selected, the best training is provided and the leadership needs of local school districts are met by a crop of highly effective principals.” All of the Haslam-O-Meter Haslam-O-Meter Not yet rated Bill Haslam By Steve Ahillen March 9, 2012 Education Leadership Academies under construction In his campaign literature titled "Bill Haslam: The Right Experience ” candidate Haslam vowed to "develop great principals by creating a statewide leadership academy network that will serve to coordinate the efforts of existing principal preparation program.” He added: "The goal of this network will be to produce well-trained and highly effective school leaders for every region, school district and school across the state. As a businessman, I understand the importance of having a highly effective leader on site with the right autonomy and accountability, and I'll make sure every Tennessee school has great leadership.” The governor said he is committed to improving the state's low national ranking for schools, which has been a problem for decades. That same "Jobs4TN” literature mentions that Tennessee had a ranking of 41st in national test scores. Rankings on education are plentiful, but usually contain subjective elements and are often two or more years old. U.S. News and World Report does offer a 2011 ranking for high schools that puts Tennessee at No. 36. Tennessee received an "average” rating in the Science and Engineering Readiness Index , not as bad as some other Southern states' rankings, but hardly a national leader. We asked the governor's office how he is doing toward meeting this promise of instituting leadership academies and got this response on Jan. 4, 2012: "The statewide leadership academy network initiative is in the works. It is notable that the governor fulfilled a significant education ‘promise' that he talked about in the campaign through his legislation to lift he cap on and expanding charter schools in Tennessee.” We checked back again and got an emailed reply on March 7 that it is still in the works. In fairness, the governor has demonstrated a focus on improving education both with the charter schools measure mentioned as well a teacher evaluation system. That system, in which teachers are rated in part on the performance of their students, has caused much controversy, so much so that Haslam has ordered a review of it to be completed June 1. Then, on Feb. 15, 2012, the Department of Education announced the formation of a Common Core Leadership Council , explained as: "Thirteen directors, supervisors and an assistant principal from across the state will advise department officials on formal and informal assessments and professional development resources; shape the framework for all Common Core pilot programs; and become regional experts and leaders in the importance and concrete expectations of the standards. They also will be tasked with the selection and training of exemplary educators, who will facilitate summer training on Common Core implementation in July.” Common Core Standards were described as "a rigorous set of internationally benchmarked standards that require from students a deeper level of critical thinking.” So, there are things being done on education, but so far nothing of substance announced on the leadership academy plan. We"ll give this an In the Works. Our Sources TN.gov: "Haslam Announces Formal Review of Teacher Evaluations” TN.gov: "Tennessee Announces Common Core Leadership Council” Haslam campaign: "Bill Haslam: The Right Experience” U.S. News and World Report: "Best High Schools: State-by-State Statistics” The Huffington Post: "State Education Rankings” Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization