Walk-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Create "turnaround task force" to help school districts with failing schools Scott Walker Will create a "state funded 'Turnaround Taskforce'" to "provide needed guidance to school districts ensuring that they don’t drain financial resources from Wisconsin’s many successful schools." All of the Walk-O-Meter Walk-O-Meter Not yet rated Scott Walker By Tom Kertscher October 29, 2013 A different mechanism created for providing assistance to low-performing schools As a candidate, Gov. Scott Walker promised to create a "turnaround task force" to help school districts deal with failing schools. The task force would "provide needed guidance to school districts, ensuring that they don't drain financial resources from Wisconsin's many successful schools," Walker said during his gubernatorial campaign. In August 2011, we rated this promise In the Works; the governor's office said the task force was being pursued by a school accountability group formed a month earlier by Walker and state Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Evers. That group would "provide technical assistance and support to improve the lowest-performing schools," according to the Department of Public Instruction. We found that no turnaround task force was actually formed, but that the work it was envisioned to do has been put in place as a result of the work of the accountability group. The Department of Public Instruction pairs a low-performing school with a "turnaround partner," such as a non-profit organization or for-profit education group, for up to four years to assess problems and devise an improvement plan, said department spokesman John Johnson. According to department guidelines , the partner organization must work in the school for at least 80 percent of the work week. Students at each grade level are expected to show improvement on measures such as standardized tests by the end of the third year. Our rating The state didn't create the turnaround task force Walker promised, but has created a mechanism for providing assistance to low-performing schools. We rate this promise a Compromise. Our Sources Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, "Wisconsin Lead Turnaround Partner Application, 2012-'13" Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, "Wisconsin Lead Turnaround Partners" Interview, Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction director of education information services John Johnson, Oct. 25, 2013 Email interview, Gov. Scott Walker press secretary Tom Evenson, Oct. 28, 2013 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Tom Kertscher August 29, 2011 Task force has been tasked to accountability group As a candidate, Gov. Scott Walker promised to create a "turnaround task force" to help school districts deal with failing schools. The task force would "provide needed guidance to school districts, ensuring that they don't drain financial resources from Wisconsin"s many successful schools,” Walker said during his gubernatorial campaign. Walker's spokesman, Cullen Werwie, said the promise is being pursued by a school accountability group formed in July 2011 by Walker and state Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Evers. The group would "provide technical assistance and support to improve the lowest-performing schools,” according to the Department of Public Instruction. So, we rate this promise In the Works. Our Sources Email interview, Gov. Scott Walker spokesman Cullen Werwie, Aug. 26, 2011 Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, Accountability Reform Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, accountability group news release , July 11, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization