Buck-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Create task force to streamline business permits and regulation Bob Buckhorn "The first year ... Bob will immediately pull together a task force of respected leaders representing every segment of the business community as well as neighborhood and community leaders to look at our regulatory and bureaucratic processes to help us streamline and expedite plans, permits and regulations." All of the Buck-O-Meter Buck-O-Meter Not yet rated Bob Buckhorn By Richard Danielson June 20, 2011 Economic competitiveness committee created Mayor Bob Buckhorn has named a committee aimed at making Tampa more competitive by recommending ways to re-organize City Hall and streamline city rules and permitting. The 18-member committee includes developers, real estate executives, architects, lawyers, engineers, a member of the Tampa City Council and the past president of a citywide neighborhood group. Buckhorn said he expects the committee to focus on three areas: "One, it is to make our processes user-friendly. Secondarily, it is to get rid of antiquated and outdated codes and regulations. And thirdly, to look at our organizational chart and help us figure out how we can streamline our processes and make sure that everyone who touches the economic development process is all singing off the same song sheet." Buckhorn promised to name a committee of people from business and the community to study the city's regulatory processes with an eye on streamlining the bureaucracy and expediting development. This is the kind of group he discussed, and he created it in his first year, as he said he would. We rate this a Promise Kept. Our Sources Buckhorn for Mayor, Economic plan , accessed June 20, 2011 City of Tampa news release , accessed June 20, 2011 Interview with Mayor Bob Buckhorn, June 20, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization