Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Appoint an American Indian policy adviser Barack Obama "I'll appoint an American Indian policy adviser to my senior White House staff to work with tribes. I'll host an annual summit at the White House with tribal leaders to come up with an agenda that works for tribal communities." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Race and Ethnicity Barack Obama By Angie Drobnic Holan June 17, 2009 Obama appoints adviser to American Indian policy President Barack Obama named Kimberly Teehee as senior policy adviser for Native American affairs and a member of his Domestic Policy Council. Obama made the announcement via taped remarks to the 2009 National Congress of American Indians Mid-Year Conference on June 15. "She is rightly recognized as an outstanding advocate for Indian Country, and she will provide a direct interface at the highest level of my administration, assuring a voice for Native Americans during policymaking decisions," Obama said. Because she is an adviser to the president, Teehee does not require Senate confirmation. Teehee's previous position was senior adviser to the U.S. House of Representatives Native American Caucus co-chair, Rep. Dale Kildee, D-Mich. She is a member of the Cherokee Nation. Obama also announced a Tribal Nations Conference, a meeting to be held at the White House later this year. We rate this Promise Kept. Our Sources The White House, President Obama Announces Kimberly Teehee as Senior Policy Advisor for Native American Affairs , June 15, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Angie Drobnic Holan February 10, 2009 American Indian policy adviser coming soon First lady Michelle Obama visited the Interior Department on Feb. 9, 2009, and told the department's workers that President Obama would soon appoint an adviser for Native American issues. "Barack has pledged to honor the unique government-to-government relationship between tribes and the federal government," she said. "And he'll soon appoint a policy adviser to his senior White House staff to work with tribes and across the government on these issues such as sovereignty, health care, education — all central to the well-being of Native American families and the prosperity of tribes all across this country." Her remarks and photographs of the visit were subsequently posted to the White House Web site. Mrs. Obama has been visiting federal agencies to greet federal workers and thank them for their service. Her comments indicate President Obama is getting close to making the appointment, so we rate this promise In the Works. Our Sources White House Web site, " Stewards ," Feb. 9, 2009 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization