Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Create 1 million new manufacturing jobs by the end of 2016 Barack Obama "President Obama set a goal to create 1 million new manufacturing jobs by the end of 2016 and is working to double American exports over the next five years by promoting U.S. goods and removing trade barriers, expanding access to credit, and promoting strong growth." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Broken Jobs Trade Barack Obama By Louis Jacobson November 14, 2016 Statistics fall short on manufacturing jobs After a presidential election decided by Rust Belt voters' Republican shift, it's an opportune time to evaluate President Barack Obama's 2012 re-election promise to "create 1 million new manufacturing jobs by the end of 2016." (We're also tracking his promise to " double American exports over the next five years.") Bureau of Labor Statistics data shows that between the time Obama made that promise, amid the 2012 campaign, and October 2016, the number of manufacturing jobs rose by 297,000. That's well below 1 million. And you can't get to 1 million even if you use time frames that are generous to Obama. If you start from the beginning of Obama's term -- which started in a severe economic downturn -- the number of manufacturing jobs is actually down by about 303,000. And if you start counting net gains in manufacturing jobs from their lowest point in early 2010, the gains are strongest, but it's only an increase of 805,000 -- still short of 1 million. This rates Promise Broken. Editor's note: We updated this story Dec. 8, 2016, to remove references to Obama's pledge to double exports by 2016. That information was re-published in this promise update. The rating for his pledge to add 1 million manufacturing jobs remains Promise Broken. Our Sources Bureau of Labor Statistics, " Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey ," accessed Nov. 14, 2016 U.S. Census Bureau, " U.S. Trade in Goods and Services ," June 3, 2016 U.S. Census Bureau, " Exhibit 1-U.S. International Trade in Goods and Services ," accessed Nov. 14, 2016 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization