Obameter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Include humanitarian international missions in long-term budgeting Barack Obama "Our military engages in a wide range of humanitarian activities that build friends and allies at the regional and ground level, most remarkably during the response to the tsunami in South and Southeast Asia. This demonstration of American military professionalism and aid won back local hearts in key Muslim states. Yet, such strategic and high pay off programs are presently not included in long-term planning and, when they do occur, actually take away funds from a unit's regular operational budget. The result is that the United States sometimes misses opportunities to build partnerships and trust. The Obama administration will expand such programs, regularizing them into the annual budget so that our efforts to aid allies, and win hearts and minds along the way, are sustainable, rather than ad-hoc." All of the Obameter Obameter Promise Kept Federal Budget Foreign Policy Military Natural Disasters Barack Obama By Becky Bowers January 11, 2013 Obama boosts military's humanitarian aid budget In 2008, Barack Obama promised to boost a tiny corner of the nation's defense spending — humanitarian assistance. When we say tiny, we mean tiny — roughly one-hundredth of 1 percent of a Pentagon budget worth hundreds of billions. That's because most humanitarian aid is handled through civilian agencies. But candidate Obama said humanitarian work by the military was important to "build friends and allies." So he promised to expand the annual budget so that help for things like disaster assistance wouldn't require grabbing other money. Defense budget experts told us to look at funding for Overseas Humanitarian Disaster and Civic Aid , known as the OHDCA account. We found that the government now routinely budgets 60 percent more for such aid than under President George W. Bush, up from $70 million to nearly $110 million a year. "It has happened. Success," said  Russell Rumbaugh, director of budgeting for foreign affairs and defense at the centrist Stimson Center. We credit Obama starting with fiscal year 2010, when his administration would have been most involved. (It was a strange time because of the financial crisis, which meant Obama had a hand in some major spending for fiscal year 2009. But we assume President George W. Bush's Defense Department played the lead role for 2009.) Most years under Bush, the government had go back to the trough during the budget year. For example, in fiscal year 2006, the administration originally asked for $61.5 million but ultimately got authority to spend $121 million. Under Obama, that only happened in fiscal year 2010, after a January 2010 earthquake in Haiti. The Haiti disaster was so catastrophic, no administration would have handled it without asking Congress for more funding, said Larry Nowels, an expert in civilian foreign assistance. The military ultimately got an additional $775 million to help. Obama promised to expand annual budgeting for military humanitarian aid. His administration has budgeted significantly more for such aid than the previous administration. We rate this Promise Kept. Our Sources Interview with Russell Rumbaugh, Stimson Center, director of budgeting for foreign affairs and defense, Jan. 11, 2013 Interview with Laura Peterson, senior policy analyst, Taxpayers for Common Sense, Jan. 10, 2013 Interview with Jacob Stokes, research associate, Center for a New American Security, Jan. 9, 2013 Interview with Larry Nowels, consultant on foreign assistance, Dec. 20, 2012 Defense Department, " Sustaining U.S. Global Leadership: Priorities for 21st Century Defense ," January 2012 USAID, " Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review ," updated June 15, 2012 Defense Security Cooperation Agency, Humanitarian Assistance, Disaster Relief & Mine Action , accessed Jan. 10, 2013 Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), Defense Budget Materials , accessed Jan. 11, 2013 Department of Defense, Defense Security Cooperation Agency, " Fiscal Year 2011 Report on Humanitarian Assistance ," January 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter By Robert Farley December 10, 2009 Humanitarian missions included in Obama's proposed budget The message outlining the Obama administration's proposed 2010 budget -- titled "A New Era of Responsibility" -- pledged to impose transparency in the budget and cited humanitarian aid as a prime example. "The Budget reduces reliance on emergency supplemental appropriations by increasing key accounts and programs for which funding is predictable and recurring," the president's message stated. "For example, the Budget includes increased funding for humanitarian assistance accounts and U.N. Peacekeeping Missions that reflect ongoing costs. While emergency supplementals may be required in the future, they should focus on truly unanticipated events and not be used to fund regular programs." That was borne out when the White House released a more detailed budget proposal in April that included $27 million more for expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense. And the proposed State Department budget sought to increase funding for international disaster relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance from $350 million to $880 million. The budgets have not all been approved and appropriated, but we think Obama's proposed budget is true to the spirit of this promise. We move this one to In the Works. Our Sources White House Web site, "A New Era of Responsibility," the Obama administration's proposed 2010 budget White House Office of Management and Budget, Appendix: Department of Defense-Military proposed 2010 budget White House Office of Management and Budget, Appendix: Department of State and Other International Programs, proposed 2010 budget Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization