Walk-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Pass and sign concealed carry legislation Scott Walker Will pass concealed carry legislation. “Scott has time and again supported shall issue concealed carry legislation and has said explicitly he will sign it as governor.” All of the Walk-O-Meter Walk-O-Meter Not yet rated Scott Walker By Dave Umhoefer July 14, 2011 After years of past vetoes, Walker makes Wisconsin the 49th state with such a law The shape of the legislation shifted along the way, but in a rare bipartisan vote (The Assembly voted 68-2 ; the Senate tally was 25-8 ) state lawmakers sent Gov. Scott Walker a concealed-carry bill. Walker signed the bill July 8, 2011, making Wisconsin the 49th state to allow the practice. The new law includes provisions requiring training and permits, which were sought by both Walker and Democrats. Some Republicans unsuccessfully pushed "constitutional carry" bills that would have allowed people to carry concealed guns without permits. Under the bill that passed, the state Department of Justice would have to issue permits to state residents 21 and over who got training and cleared background checks that showed they were not felons or otherwise prohibited from carrying guns. Walker"s predecessor, Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle, had vetoed similar measures. For Walker, this is a Promise Kept. Our Sources Walker for Governor campaign, Fact check on concealed carry , June 10, 2010 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, Walker to sign concealed carry bill in Wausau July 8th , July 1, 2011 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, Assembly passes concealed carry bill , sends to Walker, June 21, 2011 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization