Linc-O-Meter:  |
    PolitiFact The Poynter Institute Menu Donate State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin Issues All Issues Online hoaxes Coronavirus Health Care Immigration Extremism Taxes Marijuana Environment Crime Guns Foreign Policy LGBTQ+ People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis Media PunditFact Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rachel Maddow Bloggers PolitiFact Videos Campaigns 2024 Elections Truth-o-Meter True Mostly True Half True Mostly False False Pants on Fire Promises Biden Promise Tracker Trump-O-Meter Obameter Latest Promises About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Suggest a Fact-check Corrections and Updates Newsletters Donate Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up English Español Stand up for the facts! Our only agenda is to publish the truth so you can be an informed participant in democracy. We need your help. More Info I would like to contribute One Time Monthly Yearly Join Now Make group health benefits available to independent workers Lincoln Chafee "I will present legislation that will make group health benefits available to independent workers, as they are in New York." All of the Linc-O-Meter Linc-O-Meter Not yet rated Lincoln Chafee By C. Eugene Emery Jr. July 17, 2012 Chafee proposal for independent workers submitted, but under study During his election campaign in 2010, Governor Lincoln Chafee said he wanted to make life easier for independent workers. We gave him a "Promise Broken" on his pledge to prefile legislation to make Rhode Island the most independent worker-friendly state in the United States because he didn't file any bills on the issue before the General Assembly session began. He made a related pledge to submit legislation to make group health benefits available to the self-employed, part of his plan to generate jobs in the first 100 days of his tenure. He didn't meet the 100-day deadline, but he has made an effort to change the current system. In March, Chafee introduced a 38-page bill, H-7892, designed to have state law conform to key provisions of the federal Affordable Care Act, often known as Obamacare. A Senate version, S-2888 , was introduced in April. In addition to barring insurance companies from denying coverage to those with pre-existing conditions and requiring them to provide coverage to the children of policy holders until age 26, the bill ordered the insurance commissioner to adopt rules to cover individuals, such as independent workers, under health insurance plans that cover employees who work for small companies. According to a briefing paper on the legislation, Massachusetts and New York have already combined the two risk groups. By doing the same in Rhode Island, Chafee's proposal would allow individuals to purchase such insurance from Blue Cross, United Healthcare and Tufts Health Plan. Currently, it is only available from Blue Cross. The Chafee plan didn't pass. Instead, the legislature amended both bills to order the issues to be studied by its Permanent Joint Committee on Health Care Oversight. A report is due Oct. 1. In summary, Chafee promised to "present legislation that will make group health benefits available to independent workers." He did that, as part of the effort to bring state law into compliance with the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. It hasn't been enacted, but he didn't promise to put it into law. The act of submission is enough to earn a Promise Kept . (Get updates from PolitiFactRI on Twitter . To comment or offer your ruling, visit us on our PolitiFact Rhode Island Facebook page.) Our Sources RILIN.state.RI.US, " S-2888: An Act Relating to Insurance -- Accident and Sickness Insurance Policies ," accessed July 12, 2012 ScribD.com, " Overview of the Proposed Market Reform Bill H 7892, An Act Relating to Insurance - Accident and Sickness Policies ," March 21, 2012, accessed July 12, 2012 RILIN.state.RI.US, " S-2888 Substitute A: An Act Relating to Insurance -- Accident and Sickness Insurance Policies ," accessed July 12, 2012 Read About Our Process The Principles of the Truth-O-Meter Latest Fact-checks Load more Offices District of Columbia 1800 I Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Florida 801 3rd St. S St. Petersburg, FL 33701 727-821-9494 People Joe Biden Kamala Harris Donald Trump Mitch McConnell Hakeem Jeffries Ron DeSantis State Editions California Florida Iowa Michigan New Hampshire New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Texas West Virginia Wisconsin About Us Our Process Our Staff En Español Who pays for PolitiFact? Advertise with Us Corrections and Updates Newsletters RSS Feeds Recent Articles and Fact-checks Recent Fact-checks Suggest a Fact-check Follow us The Facts Newsletter Sign up Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright ©All Rights Reserved Poynter Institute 2020, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization