Is This a 'Short-Tailed Weasel'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is This a 'Short-Tailed Weasel'? An image of a felt doll is frequently shared as if it was a genuine photograph of a particularly toy-like weasel. Dan Evon Published March 30, 2018 Claim: A photograph shows a short-tailed weasel. Rating: Miscaptioned About this rating New visitors to our site may be surprised to learn just how often stuffed animals get mistaken for living, breathing creatures. We've previously published stories about inanimate objects resembling baby owls , the " world's cutest rodent, " an adorable bunny , a tiny platypus , and a mythical " marbled fuark ." In March 2018, we came across another felt doll to add to our ever-growing list of fake animal photographs. This time it supposedly featured a stoat, or a short-tailed weasel: This is undeniably a very cute snow floof, and the photograph is real in that it has not been digitally altered, but the image actually shows a felt doll that was available via Alena Mordvinova's Etsy shop in 2013. Mordinova posted several other images of the stoat doll, along with a message that in Russia, their name, laska, also means "kindness"; incidentally, in their white phase, these same animals are also called " ermine ": Laska, little white weasel, collectible felty, wool I never knew why in my country white weasels called laska. In Russian language it means kindness. I always liked that name, because in my opinion that's how this feeling could look - little, white and fluffy=) Both the actual stoat (left) and the felt doll (right) would definitely fall under the "snow floof" category, but only one is real: By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Fauxtography Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy