Did Tom Price Say It Is 'Better for Our Budget If Cancer Patients Die More Quickly'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Tom Price Say It Is 'Better for Our Budget If Cancer Patients Die More Quickly'? A statement attributed to U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price about the budget benefits of cancer patients' dying quickly is apocryphal. Dan Evon Published March 17, 2017 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: Tom Price said that it was 'better for our budget if cancer patients die more quickly.' Rating: False About this rating On 16 March 2017, the web site Newslo published an article positing that U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price had said that it would be better for the federal budget if cancer patients died quickly: "At the risk of sounding insensitive, we've pretty much got two choices here: we either repeal Obamacare, or we take out more loans from countries like China. And nobody wants to be in debt to the Chinese. At the end of the day, it's better for our national budget if cancer patients pass away more quickly, it's a lousy way to live anyway, and I'm sorry to say it out loud, but it's the truth," Price concluded. This quote was not a genuine statement issued by Secretary Price.  It originated with Newslo, a " hybrid " web site that publishes articles containing a mixture of fact and fiction: JUST ENOUGH NEWS ... Newslo is the first hybrid News/Satire platform on the web. Readers come to us for a unique brand of entertainment and information that is enhanced by features like our fact-button, which allows readers to find what is fact and what is satire. The web site's hybrid articles are accompanied by two buttons labeled "show facts" and "hide facts" that allow readers to see which parts of an article are factual and which parts are fictional. In this case, pressing the "show facts" button highlighted the introductory paragraph of the article, indicating that the remainder of the article, the portion containing the fake Price quote, was fictional: Newslo is a rather prolific purveyor of fake news, having previously penned articles containing fake quotes from Steve Bannon , KellyAnne Conway , and Mike Pence . Sources Newslo .   "Tom Price: 'It’s Better for Our Budget If Cancer Patients Die More Quickly.'"
    16 March 2017. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Newslo Tom Price Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy