Solar Eclipse from Space? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Solar Eclipse from Space? A supposed photograph of a solar eclipse taken from space was actually a digital creation. David Mikkelson Published May 20, 2012 Image courtesy of Igor Zh. / Shutterstock.com Claim: A photograph captures a solar eclipse as seen from space. Rating: False About this rating An image was commonly circulated online in mid-2012 that was billed as a photograph taken from space (via the International Space Station) of a 20 May 2012 solar eclipse visible from North America: I refuse to believe this image of the eclipse is real, as much as I wish it were. Not that it couldn't be real. It can. I've seen plenty of photos of eclipses taken from space, but this one is just too awesome to be real. The image was not a photograph of that celestial event, however -- or a photograph at all. It was purely a work of Digital/3-Dimensional Art that was uploaded to the DeviantART web site back in 2009. Sources "Archive Blogs." Los Angeles Times , https://www.latimes.com/archives/blogs/. A4size-Ska User Profile | DeviantArt . https://www.deviantart.com/a4size-ska/gallery. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Space Solar Eclipse Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy