Is Pastor and Gospel Singer Don Moen Dead After a Short Illness? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is Pastor and Gospel Singer Don Moen Dead After a Short Illness? A dubious web site falsely reported the death of the Christian Contemporary music artist Don Moen. Dan MacGuill Published July 12, 2017 Image courtesy of Wikimedia Claim: In July 2017, Don Moen died of "stomach pain". Rating: False About this rating On 12 July 2017, the HoustonChronicle-TV web site published an entirely fake story, reporting that American gospel singer and pastor Don Moen had died after a "short illness": American singer-songwriter, Evangelist Don Moen has died after [a] short battle with stomach pain. His family confirmed that he died early this morning at General Acute Care (GAC) Hospital in California barely [a] couple of hours after he was rushed to the hospital. The article is riddled with errors and fabrications, such as California's "General Acute Care Hospital", which does not exist, and a fake tribute from President Donald Trump. Moen's collaborator —  Nigerian Christian Contemporary music artist Frank Edwards — confirmed the report is a hoax, tweeting a screenshot of a text message sent by Moen's son Michael, who wrote: Dad is great and it good health. That article is false and just trying to get people to click thru [sic] to their website. I'll have dad post something on social media shortly so people know. PLS IGNORE THIS FAKE NEWS!!! Don moen @donmoen is VERY ALIVE AND HEALTHY ?? pic.twitter.com/UcIqQs2AGA — FRANK EDWARDS (@FRANKRICHBOY) July 12, 2017 On the day the fake article was published, Moen posted to Facebook . The story itself contains several hallmarks of being fake: an invented hospital; a dubious cause of death ("stomach pain") is followed by the contradictory claim that the cause of death was "not immediately known"; a quote from Donald Trump is not attributed to any source; a quote from the pastor T.D. Jakes is attributed to "local media" but no specific source is named. HoustonChronicle-TV.com is not in any way associated with the Houston Chronicle newspaper. By Dan MacGuill Dan Mac Guill is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Fake News Death Hoax Houston Chronicle Houstonchronicle-tv.com Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy