Leah Remini Finds Out Husband Is Cheating on 'Ellen' Show? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Leah Remini Finds Out Husband Is Cheating on 'Ellen' Show? Did Leah Remini discover during a taping of Ellen DeGeneres' show that her spouse was being unfaithful to her? David Mikkelson Published Dec. 19, 2014 Claim: Leah Remini found out during a phone prank Ellen DeGeneres' show that her husband was cheating on her. Rating: False About this rating On 17 December 2014, actress Leah Remini appeared on the Ellen DeGeneres Show for DeGeneres' tenth of twelve Christmas-themed episodes. In the course of the show, the pair engaged in a prank call segment, with Remini suggesting that she call her husband Angelo Pagan, whom she stated was on a business trip, for an unspecified prank to which Pagan was not a party. However, when a woman answered the number dialed, Remini appeared to be surprised and seemingly became angry after she identified herself to the individual as Pagan's wife. On the other end of the line, the woman who answered replied, "You're married?" The segment quickly cut away, leading many viewers to believe that the prank was cut short by Remini's discovery of her husband's infidelity: https://youtu.be/P7IUIyCMrcU Not every Ellen viewer uses Twitter, so they may have missed Remini's tweet later that day addressing the segment and its veracity: Despite the clarification issued by Remini, viewers who did not catch the tweet remained confused about whether the segment was real and whether the star suffered a heartbreaking discovery on television. However, it's worth noting the show is not usually aired live: Had such a mishap occurred on camera outside the course of a planned prank, most likely the moment would have been left on the cutting floor rather than aired in what was otherwise a very upbeat episode. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy