Colorado Rockies Baseball Team to Sell Marijuana Brownies at Their Concession Stands? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Colorado Rockies Baseball Team to Sell Marijuana Brownies at Their Concession Stands? Reports that the Colorado Rockies baseball team have opted to add pot brownies to the treats available at Coors Field concession stands are fake news. Kim LaCapria Published March 23, 2016 Image courtesy of Flickr Claim: The Colorado Rockies will be selling pot brownies at Coors Field concession stands . Rating: False About this rating In February 2014, social media users began sharing an Empire Sports article reporting that the Colorado Rockies baseball team planned to offering marijuana edibles (like pot brownies) Coors Field concession stands during the upcoming (i.e., 2016) season: Sources are reporting that Major League Baseball's Colorado Rockies plan to sell food items which contain marijuana at concession stands during games next season. The first item on the list? Pot Brownies. An official within the Rockies organization stated that the Rockies organization has given the green light to concession stands selling marijuana brownies. High ranking officials in the Rockies organization say they are thrilled at the new menu item since they note that it will bring in tens of thousands of dollars per month. The claim wasn't totally implausible on its face, as Colorado was one of four states — along with Alaska, Oregon, and Washington — that had legalized recreational use of marijuana (although Colorado law didn't permit the consumption of pot "openly and publicly," which would tend to blunt the appeal of selling marijuana at large sporting events). In fact, this story was totally false, a fabrication promulgated by the Empire Sports fake news site, which has long published sensational yet fake stories to garner social media shares. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Marijuana Empire Herald Empire Sports Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy