Major Highway Accident After Man Stops in Middle of Highway to Catch Pikachu! | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Major Highway Accident After Man Stops in Middle of Highway to Catch Pikachu! Fake news reports a man absorbed in playing the new Pokemon Go app caused a major traffic accident. David Mikkelson Published July 9, 2016 Claim: A man absorbed in playing the new Pokemon Go app caused a major traffic accident. Rating: False About this rating In July 2016, the CartelPress.com web site published an article reporting that a man absorbed in playing the newly-released Pokemon Go app had caused a major traffic accident: MASSACHUSETTS —  26 Year-Old Lamar Hickson is accused of causing one of the worst highway accidents after stopping in the middle of the highway to catch a Pikachu. Lamar Hickson admitted to police that he was playing the newly released Pokemon app game know as “Pokemon Go” while driving. He said “Sh*t if you wanna catch them all you gotta risk it all so I put my car in park and started tossing these balls”. Charges against Hickson are still unknown, nobody was seriously hurt but this raises concerns about future accidents. We spoke to one of the car accident victims and he also says he was also playing the game. There was no truth to this story.  It originated with CartelPress.com, one of many fake news web sites that publish fabricated stories to lure social media users into clicking on them and generating ad revenue. The photograph of the highway accident used in the article was actually a picture of a pile-up on Interstate 25 near Denver that took place in March 2014 and was caused by "icy, fast-moving weather and a flash-frozen stretch of pavement." By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Pokemon Go Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy