Did Carrie Fisher Do Her Own Rewrites for 'The Empire Strikes Back'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Carrie Fisher Do Her Own Rewrites for 'The Empire Strikes Back'? An image circulating online falsely attributed some dialogue changes to the Hollywood icon. Arturo Garcia Published Dec. 28, 2016 Image courtesy of Liam Goodner/Shutterstock Claim: Carrie Fisher contributed script revisions during the filming of "The Empire Strikes Back" Rating: False About this rating Actress and mental health activist Carrie Fisher, who died on 27 December 2016,  had a decades-long and multifaceted career that included a highly-acclaimed stint as a " script doctor ." But an image circulating online wrongfully credited her with a rewrite on one of her most celebrated projects. On 24 December 2016, film documentarian Will McRabb posted an image on Twitter of handwritten revisions to the script of The Empire Strikes Back," stating that the changes had been made by Fisher, who reprised her role as Princess Leia Organa in the 1980 film.  In that tweet, McRabb stated that the image pictured "Carrie Fisher's handwritten EMPIRE STRIKES BACK dialogue changes. What an amazingly multitalented woman." The tweet, which was published following Fisher's heart attack during a flight from London to Los Angeles, was retweeted thousands of times. Journalist and StarWars.com contributor Amy Ratcliffe noted that the revisions were not attributed to Fisher in the book The Making of Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back, where they were initially published: @RyancBritt The page is from the Making of Empire Strikes Back but the caption doesn't say anything about Fisher: pic.twitter.com/KvilO1Jzhm — Amy Ratcliffe (@amy_geek) December 26, 2016 As the Daily Dot reported, the rewrites were actually credited to the film's director, Irvin Kershner, and Fisher herself said in a 2008 interview that: Harrison Ford was rewriting his stuff in all the Star Wars movies and it became annoying because it impacted my stuff. It is easier as an actor to go into rewriting because you know what would fit into your mouth dialogue-wise. We would tell George Lucas, “You can type this shit but you can’t say it.” By the third film, I was rewriting a little bit of my dialogue. George asked me to punch up one of the prequels. I wrote a script with George for one of the Young Indy series. Fisher did indeed "punch up" the script for another Star Wars film, "Attack of the Clones," along with other films, including Hook , Sister Act , The Wedding Singer , and Outbreak . She returned to the role of Leia Organa as the character reappeared, this time as a general, in Star Wars: The Force Awakens and its follow-up, The Last Jedi . Sources Bain, Marc.   "Carrie Fisher, The Novelist and Memoirist, Also Was an Unsung Genius Script Doctor." Quartz. 27 December 2016. Jaworski, Michelle.   "No, Carrie Fisher Didn't Rewrite This Page of 'Empire Strikes Back.'" The Daily Dot. 27 December 2016. By Arturo Garcia Arturo Garcia is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Star Wars Carrie Fisher The Empire Strikes Back Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy