Did Kellyanne Conway's Inaugural Dress Copy a 1970s Simplicity Pattern? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Kellyanne Conway's Inaugural Dress Copy a 1970s Simplicity Pattern? An image suggesting Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway's inaugural ensemble resembled a 1970's 'Simplicity' pattern was doctored. Kim LaCapria Published Jan. 25, 2017 Claim: A Gucci ensemble worn by Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway to the inauguration closely resembled a 1970s 'Simplicity' pattern. Rating: False About this rating The Gucci attire worn by presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway at President Donald Trump's 20 January 2017 inauguration became a viral sensation, amplified by the circulation of a subsequent online image suggesting the ensemble was virtually identical to one issued by pattern maker Simplicity in the mid-1970s. The Facebook page "World of Wonder Productions" shared a side-by-side comparison of Conway's unique jacket and what appeared to be a vintage Simplicity pattern packet sporting an undeniably similar design: Although the comparison image was shared widely, it was also easily debunked as a fake. The depicted Simplicity pattern was numbered 6554 and issued in 1974, and at least eight unaltered units of the pattern available for sale via several Etsy shops catering to collectors show it to be different in appearance than the circulated image: Simplicity 6554 Misses Short Dress Vintage 1970s Sewing Pattern "The short dress with gored skirt stitched to bodice at normal waistline has shirt type collar, front button closing, back inset, self fabric tie ends and set in sleeves gathered to armholes. View 1 has long sleeves finished with contrasting French cuffs and a separate contrasting collar. View 2 features short tucked sleeves." The creator of the Kellyanne Conway Simplicity pattern image is unknown, but pattern collectors' sites and shops made the unaltered version easy to find. In its original form, the drawn center model's attire in no way resembled the Gucci jacket Conway donned for the 2017 inauguration. Sources Bryant, Kenzie.   "Kellyanne Conway’s Inaugural Outfit Is a $3,600 Jacket She Calls 'Trump Revolutionary Wear.'" Vanity Fair .   20 January 2017. Finicky Pattern Shop .   "1970s Dress Pattern Simplicity 6554 Shirtwaist Dress."
    Accessed 25 January 2017. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Doctored Photos Kellyanne Conway Inaccurate Viral Photos Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy