Did Marilyn Monroe and Elizabeth Taylor Pose Together? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Marilyn Monroe and Elizabeth Taylor Pose Together? Two long-buried photographs were doctored to show the two icons leaning against a tree together. Dan Evon Published April 18, 2017 Claim: A photograph shows Marilyn Monroe and Elizabeth Taylor leaning against a tree. Rating: False About this rating A photograph purportedly showing Marilyn Monroe and Elizabeth Taylor posing together while leaning against a tree was posted to Twitter by @HistoryInMoment on 16 April 2017: This image is a composite of at least two different photographs. Photographer Mark Kauffman took the original photograph of Elizabeth Taylor in 1948, but it wasn't made public until shortly after the actress' death in 2011, when it appeared in TIME , along with other previously unpublished photographs of the actress: Photographer Mark Kauffman captured the young actress and her home life in 1948. The pin she is wearing belonged to Glenn Davis, a 1946 Heisman Trophy-winning athlete she was dating at the time. The photograph of Marilyn Monroe also came from a previously unreleased cache of photographs. In 2009, LIFE published several images of the former star, including a photograph taken by Ed Clark in 1950 that showed the actress leaning against a tree in Griffith Park in Los Angeles. Here's a look at the original photographs and the viral composite image: By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Altered Photo Marilyn Monroe Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy