Did Elevation Church Debut a Water Slide Baptismal? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Elevation Church Debut a Water Slide Baptismal? A report that the Elevation Church had installed a water slide to speed up baptisms originated with a satirical site. Dan Evon Published Aug. 3, 2016 Image courtesy of Babylon Bee Claim: The Elevation Church has installed a water slide to speed up baptisms. Rating: Labeled Satire About this rating On 2 August 2016, the web site Babylon Bee published an article positing that the Elevation Church in North Carolina had installed a water slide to speed up baptisms: Regular attenders of Elevation Church reported being surprised Sunday morning when they were directed to the "new balcony entrance" for seating. "We normally get there early so we can sit as close to pastor Steven as possible," Marie Dotwiler told reporters. "We were all like, 'What's going on?'" They did not have to wonder for long. Pastor Steven Furtick took the stage under a single spotlight, and after some coy banter, he reportedly announced that it was "Baptism Sunday," but that this was "not your Mama's Baptism Sunday." At this cue, a giant water slide, stretching from the balcony down to a small pool of water, was unveiled from behind a large curtain as the worship band began performing TLC's 1994 hit "Waterfalls." While the Elevation Church is a real house of worship in North Carolina, that church does not feature a baptismal water slide. The above-referenced article is a spoof from the satire site Babylon Bee , self-described as "your trusted source for Christian news satire." North Carolina's Elevation Church does frequently hold mass public baptisms and critics have accused the church of "Disneyfying" the religious service. But so far that "Disneyfication" has not extended to the addition of a water slide. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags The Babylon Bee Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy