Did a Google Exec Admit to Rigging Search Results Against Donald Trump? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did a Google Exec Admit to Rigging Search Results Against Donald Trump? A satirical web site published a fictitious article claiming that an exec at Google admitted to rigging search results against President Trump. Dan Evon Published Aug. 28, 2018 Claim: Google CFO "Martin Brailey" admitted that the online giant was rigging search results against President Trump. Rating: False About this rating On 28 August 2018, the President of the United States used Twitter to accuse the search engine Google of rigging its results in order to highlight the "left-wing fake news media" while shunning conservative outlets and favorable reporting about himself: ....results on “Trump News” are from National Left-Wing Media, very dangerous. Google & others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can & cannot see. This is a very serious situation-will be addressed! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 28, 2018 Shortly after President Trump issued these accusations via Twitter, the website " trumpbetrayed.us ," which is part of America's Last Line of Defense network of junk news sites,  published an article positing that Google's CFO "Martin Brailey" had admitted his company was indeed rigging search results to be anti-Trump. That was not the case. First, TrumpBetrayed.us is part of a trolling network that spews out fabricated, inflammatory political  content under the guise of proffering "satire."    Second, "Martin Brailey" is not the CFO of Google, as that position actually belongs to Ruth Porat .  Finally, the article included two alleged quotes from Google's (fictional) CFO, each of which was accompanied by a hyperlink. While genuine news sites would have used these links to direct readers back to an authoritative source for the quotes, the links included in this junk news directed readers to a " surprise " GIF and an article about incestual family trees: Unsurprisingly, neither of those "source" links contained a quote from Google's CFO. Google's CFO did not admit that the search engine was rigging results against Donald Trump. In fact, a genuine statement from Riva Sciuto, a spokesperson for the company, explained that Google's search results are not bent to any political ideology: “When users type queries into the Google Search bar, our goal is to make sure they receive the most relevant answers in a matter of seconds," said Riva Sciuto, a Google spokesperson. "Search is not used to set a political agenda, and we don't bias our results toward any political ideology," Sciuto said. "We continually work to improve Google Search, and we never rank search results to manipulate political sentiment." Sources Gilmer, Marcus.   "Trump's Anti-Google Tweets Show That He Doesn't Know How the Internet Works." Mashable .   28 August 2018. Fritze, John.   "Trump Aide Says President Weighing Regulations on Google Search Engine That He Considers 'Rigged.'" USA Today .   28 August 2018. Farrow, Janet.   "Google Exec Admits They Rig Search Results Against Trump." Trumpbetrayed.us .   28 August 2018. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Google Donald Trump Trumpbetrayed.us America's Last Line Of Defense Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy