Did a Texas Mosque Refuse to Help Hurricane Harvey Survivors? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did a Texas Mosque Refuse to Help Hurricane Harvey Survivors? A "satire" site fabricated a story about a local mosque closing its doors to "infidels" seeking help. Arturo Garcia Published Sept. 4, 2017 Image courtesy of James R. Martin / Shutterstock.com Claim: Members of a Houston mosque barricaded themselves inside and refused to help people evacuating Hurricane Harvey. Rating: False About this rating On 31 August 2017, repeat offender TheLastLineOfDefense.com published a " report " on the "Ramashan Mosque" in Houston, which according to them, refused to help people seeking relief from the flooding caused by Hurricane Harvey: The building can easily hold over 500 people, much more than the 27 currently inside. But the imam of the mosque, Aswat Turads, says that they absolutely cannot accept any non-Muslim people because it’s against their religion. “The Quran is very clear,” Turads told local news radio station WXTX, “we are forbidden from helping infidels, no matter how much we want to. If we allow Christians and Jews inside, we are violating a fundamental tenant of Islam and will be punished by Allah. The original version of the story (and an equally fake follow-up post ) also included a picture of Canadian imam Ibrahim Hindy, who publicly refuted the story, saying that not only was he in Saudi Arabia completing the hajj Islamic pilgrimage at the time the massive storm hit Texas, he has never been to that state in his life at all: That's me in the picture. I've never even been to Texas before. https://t.co/jIPfeALckc — Ibrahim Hindy (@Hindy500) September 2, 2017 The site quickly swapped out its photographs in response. The current version of the story now includes an Associated Press picture of a Lebanese cleric, Ahmad al-Assir, who was arrested by authorities in his country in August 2015. This story is a complete fabrication, and neither the "Ramashan Mosque" or "Aswat Turads" exist. The radio station named in the article, WXTX-FM, is actually based out of Columbus, Georgia and not Texas. TheLastLineOfDefense.com is a known purveyor of fake news stories. Its disclaimer reads: America’s Last Line of Defense is a satirical publication that may sometimes appear to be telling the truth. We assure you that’s not the case. We present fiction as fact and our sources don’t actually exist. Names that represent actual people and places are purely coincidental and all images should be considered altered and do not in any way depict reality. In other words, if you believe this crap you’re a real dumbass. Despite its complete lack of any factual content, the hoax story was shared thousands of times; it was also picked up and run verbatim as true by other web sites. In reality, several Houston mosques have taken people in and performed volunteer food and donation drives to help victims of the storm. Sources Kerr, Jaren. "Photo of Mississauga imam used in fake story about Hurricane Harvey." Toronto Star. 3 September 2017. Agence France-Presse. "Lebanon: Sunni Sheikh Ahmad al-Assir captured."
Accessed via LaPresse.ca. 15 August 2015. By Arturo Garcia Arturo Garcia is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Islam Houston Hurricane Harvey Thelastlineofdefense.org The Last Line Of Defense Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy