Does Facebook's Green 'BFF' Prove Your Account Is Secure? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Does Facebook's Green 'BFF' Prove Your Account Is Secure? A Facebook status update meme claims that a green "BFF" in typed comments is an indicator of account security; it isn't. Kim LaCapria Published March 22, 2018 Image courtesy of Ink Drop / Shutterstock.com Claim: You can determine whether your Facebook account is secure by typing "BFF" to see if it turns green. Rating: False About this rating In March 2018, a Facebook status update meme began circulating across social networks: Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, invented the word BFF. To make sure your account is safe on Facebook, type BFF in a comment. If it appears green, your account is protected. If it does not appear in green, change your password immediately because it will be hacked. The origin of the claim remains unclear, but like many other rumors about Facebook features , it spread far and fast. And like most of those assertions, it appeared to be based on a completely inaccurate inference about the site's features. On 23 October 2017, Mashable reported Facebook's introduction of a then-new feature involving words in comments that triggered animations. Among them were "congratulations," "xoxo," and "BFF" (best friends forever): The social network has been experimenting with these for awhile — you've probably seen them on posts with the words "congratulations" or "xoxo" (or some variation thereof.) When posted, these words appear as a different color and clicking on them triggers a brief animation (balloons or hearts, for example.) Now, Facebook is updating the list of words that triggers these animations. Additions include: "rad," "bff," "lmao," and "thank you so much." All of those words will now come with their own colors and animation effects. In the video below, the animation for "BFF" begins at approximately the 0:27 mark: Although it is true that Facebook comments including the word "BFF" in green are among known animations, its appearance (or lack thereof) is not related to account security in any way. A missing green "BFF" does not indicate anyone's account was compromised ay any point, and instead most likely relates to browser settings. Sources Bell, Karissa.   "Facebook Just Added A Bunch Of Hidden Easter Eggs You Can Unlock By Typing Special Words." Mashable .   23 October 2018. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Facebook Facebook Rumors Facebook Status Memes Facebook Status Updates Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy