Trump: 'We're Bringing Back the Draft'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Trump: 'We're Bringing Back the Draft'? Reports that Donald Trump said that he plans to reinstate a military draft in the U.S. originated with a fake news site. Kim LaCapria Published Dec. 4, 2016 Image courtesy of Everett Historical / Shutterstock Claim: Donald Trump has vowed to reinstate the draft. Rating: False About this rating In late 2016, a months-old article from the web site Real News Right Now was circulated on social media, appearing to report that President-elect Donald Trump had pledged to reinstate the draft : GOP presidential front-runner and billionaire entrepreneur Donald Trump on Thursday unveiled his plan to ‘make the military great again,’ saying he intends to reinstate the draft as part of a larger effort to bolster America’s armed forces. “We’re bringing back the draft, okay? We’re going to bring it back and were going to make America as strong as we were in the Sixties,” Trump declared while addressing supporters at the Pacific Amphitheater in Costa Mesa. “I love the Sixties,” said Trump, continuing, “I was a very big supporter of the Vietnam war and, of course, the troops. No one supports the troops more than I do.” In addition to bringing back military conscription, Mr. Trump said that if elected, he will enact legislation that will guarantee citizenship to anyone who serves in the armed forces for a minimum of four years. “You have people coming into this country, coming over our borders, expecting a free ride. We’re not going to give it to them, folks. They’re going to have to earn their citizenship.” This report (like all others articles on Real News Right Now) was entirely fabricated. Although the site does not include a disclaimer identifying its output as fake news ,  their " About " page does include obvious tongue-in-cheek assertions that author R. Hobbus J.D. has received awards such as the "Oscar Mayer Award for Journalistic Excellence" and the " Stephen Glass Distinction in Journalistic Integrity." By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Donald Trump Real News Right Now Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy