Landmarks Went Purple in Honor of Prince? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Landmarks Went Purple in Honor of Prince? Several landmarks went purple after Prince died, but not all of the images circulating are authentic. Dan Evon Published April 26, 2016 Claim: Landmarks all over the world were bathed in purple light to honor Prince after his death in April 2016. Rating: Mixture About this rating After Prince was found dead on 21 April 2016, several bridges and monuments in his home state were illuminated with purple lights to honor him.  Not long after that, photographs began to circulate that purported to showing major landmarks across the world lit with purple in Prince's memory. While many of these images are authentic, others have been digitally manipulated or shared with misinformation. The Chicago River: FALSE While the Chicago River has a reputation of changing colors every March for St. Patrick's Day, the city did not turn the river purple in honor of Prince. The above photograph was altered to turn a green river into a purple one: Niagara Falls: Miscaptioned While a photograph showing a purple Niagara Falls is real, Prince was not the reason for the color change. Before Prince's death, the Niagara Falls Illumination Board announced that they would be turning the falls purple in honor of Queen Elizabeth II's birthday: The Niagara Falls Illumination Board will acknowledge the 90th birthday of Queen Elizabeth II on April 21 by bathing the Horseshoe and American Falls in purple — the colour of royalty — for 15 minutes beginning at 10 p.m. Queen Elizabeth has sat on the throne as Queen of the United Kingdom, Commonwealth and Canada since 1953. Toronto's CN Tower also was lit purple on the same day, creating additional confusion, but both the tower and Niagara Falls were commemorating the Queen's birthday, not Prince's death. The Lowry Bridge: TRUE Flickr user Tony Webster snapped the above-displayed photograph on 21 April 2016, showing the Lowry Avenue Bridge in Minneapolis, Minnesota, lit purple for Prince. The Super Dome: TRUE The Super Dome turned purple in 2014, when the musician performed a show during the Essence Festival in New Orleans. The city put on a similar display the day after the musician's passing. The Forum: TRUE The Forum in Los Angeles, which hosted a memorable Prince concert in 2011, paid its purple respects to the musician. San Francisco City Hall: TRUE San Francisco City Hall lights up purple for #Prince https://t.co/lApxybX05D pic.twitter.com/5uJydvkRzt — Joe Vazquez (@joenewsman) April 22, 2016 Los Angeles City Hall: TRUE The buildings washed purple for Prince weren't just venues he had played. San Francisco's and Los Angeles' City Hall buildings were also lit in his honor. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Prince Architecture Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy