Did KellyAnne Conway Say Being Labeled Racist is 'a Small Price to Pay' for Making America Great Again? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did KellyAnne Conway Say Being Labeled Racist is 'a Small Price to Pay' for Making America Great Again? A purported quote from a White House senior adviser came from a web site that blends factual stories with satire, and is a hoax. Dan Evon Published Jan. 30, 2017 Image courtesy of Gage Skidmore/Flickr Claim: KellyAnne Conway said that being labelled racist is a small price to pay for making the country "great again." Rating: False About this rating On 29 January 2017, web site Politicot published an article which included an alleged (and polarizing) quote from U.S. President Donald Trump's White House senior adviser, KellyAnne Conway: “So, you want to call him racist? Well, here’s what I say to that: being labeled a racist is a small price to pay for being great again, for making this entire country great again. Because, once the storm blows over, the war drums stop beating and the guns go back into their holsters, only then will we have the final tally. And only then will the people of this country realize that Donald Trump is working for them and not against them. True – some people will know that more than others – most notably white, Christian people, but nevertheless – that will be the state of things. And everybody will be ashamed for not having held their tongues,” Conway concluded. This quote is not genuine. Politicot is an offshoot of the web site Newslo.com , which describes itself as a hybrid web site that publishes stories containing both factual and fictional segments: Newslo is the first hybrid News/Satire platform on the web. Readers come to us for a unique brand of entertainment and information that is enhanced by features like our fact-button, which allows readers to find what is fact and what is satire. Readers can reveal the "fact" portion of the article by clicking the "Show Facts" button. In this case, doing so highlights the introductory paragraph, showing that the rest of the article is devoid of factual content: The "racist" quote appeared in the article's final paragraph, which, again, was not highlighted when the "Show Facts" button was clicked. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Newslo Fake Quotes Donald Trump Kellyanne Conway Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy