Canadian Prime Minister and Opposition Leader Share Kiss to Denounce Orlando Massacre | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Canadian Prime Minister and Opposition Leader Share Kiss to Denounce Orlando Massacre A fake news web site published a fabricated photograph of Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and opposition leader Thomas Mulcair kissing to denounce the Orlando nightclub mass shooting. Dan Evon Published June 15, 2016 Claim: A photograph shows Canadian Prime Minster Justin Trudeau kissing opposition leader Thomas Mulcair. Rating: False About this rating On 15 June 2016, the web site em>World News Daily Report published a fabricated image of Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and opposition leader Thomas Mulcair kissing to accompany an article stating that the tender moment was intended to show support for the victims of a mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando: Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau, and the New Democratic Party leader Thomas Mulcair, made a surprising stunt yesterday, to denounce the shooting that killed 50 people in a gay bar in Orlando, Florida. The two politicians, known for their dislike of each other, gathered for the first time in a joint press conference, yesterday. They completely surprised the media and the world, by kissing languidly for several seconds, to fight homophobic prejudices and denounce the recent violence against the LGBT community. However, the article (and its accompanying photograph) was just another piece of clickbait fiction from World News Daily Report , a fake news site whose disclaimer notes that: WNDR assumes however all responsibility for the satirical nature of its articles and for the fictional nature of their content. All characters appearing in the articles in this website — even those based on real people —  are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any persons, living, dead, or undead is purely a miracle. Although the above-displayed photograph has been doctored and the news story attached to it is fake, the two Canadian politicians did demonstrate solidarity in the wake of the Orlando shooting. Both Trudeau and Mulcair released statements after the mass shooting stating that they stood with the LGBTQ community: We grieve with our friends in the US & stand in solidarity with the LGBTQ2 community after today's terror attack: https://t.co/nwP2MR2xUm — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) June 12, 2016 Terribly shocked to learn of the shooting at a gay nightclub in Florida. We stand with Orlando and the #LGBT community today & always. — Tom Mulcair (@ThomasMulcair) June 12, 2016 By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Justin Trudeau Orlando Nightclub Shooting Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy