Did Trump Put 'Make America Great Again' on Presidential Challenge Coins? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Trump Put 'Make America Great Again' on Presidential Challenge Coins? Past designs of the tokens, have been subtler and included the phrase 'E pluribus unum.' Megan Alpert Published Dec. 23, 2017 Image courtesy of Jim Barber / Shutterstock Claim: Redesigned challenge coins given out by President Trump replaced the familiar 'E pluribus unum' motto with Trump's campaign slogan. Rating: True About this rating Presidential challenge coins, tokens typically given out by U.S. presidents as personal mementos to military members they meet, got a Trumpian makeover in late 2017. The once-subtle coins now feature the president's campaign slogan ("Make America Great Again") and bear Trump's name in three in places (in contrast with tokens from past administrations, on which previous Presidents' names appeared just once each). Past versions of the coins have been imprinted with the slogan " E pluribus unum" ("out of many, one"), were composed of silver and copper, and bore the U.S. presidential seal. The new version replaces that seal with an eagle bearing Trump's signature, and does away with the Latin phrase that is part of the Great Seal of the United States. The Republican National Committee will fund the manufacture of the coins, which are not issued by the U.S. Mint or used as currency, but rather are souvenir keepsakes. According to the Washington Post , ethics experts have expressed concern about the decision to include a campaign slogan on the coins. Trevor Potter, a Republican and a former chairman of the Federal Election Commission, told the Post that: For the commander in chief to give a political token with a campaign slogan on it to military officers would violate the important principle of separating the military from politics, as well as diminishing the tradition of the coin. Challenge coins make valuable collector's items, with some selling on eBay for hundreds of dollars each. Sources Nakamura, David and Lisa Rein. "It's 'very gold:' The presidential coin undergoes a Trumpian            makeover." The Washington Post . 22 December 2017 Noise, David.  "'E Pluribus Unum' Becomes Controversial." Psychology Today .   13 March 2011. By Megan Alpert Article Tags Donald Trump Make America Great Again Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy