Did a Bulldog Bite Off a Pedophile's Penis as He Tried to Rape Sleeping Children? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did a Bulldog Bite Off a Pedophile's Penis as He Tried to Rape Sleeping Children? A family dog supposedly saved sleeping young children from sexual abuse by biting off an intruder's genitals. David Mikkelson Published Nov. 26, 2017 Claim: A family dog saved sleeping young children from sexual abuse by biting off an intruder's genitals. Rating: False About this rating On 14 November 2017, various web sites reproduced an article reporting that a family dog had saved sleeping young children from sexual abuse by biting off an intruder's genitals: A pedophile has been left with "life-altering" injuries after climbing through the bedroom window of two young children, only to be greeted by their pet bulldog who bit his penis off. 52-year-old Randle James of Saline County, Arkansas, climbed into the 1st-floor window of the small family home into the room where the two young sisters were sleeping after passing by and seeing the open window. After climbing into the room of the 3 and 6-year-old sisters, James got more than he bargained for when family's Pitt Pull Terrier leaped to the girl's defense. The dog severed the rapist's genitals clean off and swallowed his penis and testicles. There was no truth to this story, which originated with Neon Nettle , a fake news site that traffics in fabricated clickbait tales.  This item wasn't even original to Neon Nettle, as it strongly resembled an earlier story from a different fake news site positing that a pitbull had torn off the genitals of a man who tried to rape the dog. The photograph that accompanied the Neon Nettle story had nothing to do with a canine attack or an attempted rape.  Rather, the picture of the alleged perpetrator was a still image taken from a video showing a man's reaction to being given ketamine (an anesthetic) after fracturing his ankle in a skateboarding accident: Sources Greenberg, Jay.   "Bulldog Bites Pedophile's Penis Off as He Tried to Rape Sleeping Children." Neon Nettle .   17 November 2017. Mills, Kelly-Ann.   "Patient Has Amazing Reaction to Ketamine as Doctors Reset His Broken Ankle." Metro .    16 May 2017. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Neon Nettle Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy