Great Lakes Crossing Human Trafficking Rumor | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Great Lakes Crossing Human Trafficking Rumor Police in Auburn Hills, Michigan investigated claims that human traffickers were targeting young girls near a Michigan movie theater and found them to be "completely false." Kim LaCapria Published Jan. 8, 2016 Claim: Human traffickers are targeting young girls near the Great Lakes Crossing theater with a powdered drug that incapacitates them. Rating: False About this rating On 21 November 2015, a Facebook user published the above-reproduced status update. It held that the day before, a woman working on behalf of a sex trafficking ring had attempted to lure 14-year-old Great Lakes Crossing theatergoers with candy: From a friend of a friend.My 14 year old little sister and her friend were dropped off at the Great Lakes Crossing... Posted by Clara Arnold on Saturday, November 21, 2015 The rumor was nearly identical to a cluster of rumors that circulated in mid-2015. In May 2015, a Facebook user asserted she was subject to a similar "near miss" at an Oklahoma Hobby Lobby store ; in June, Twitter was overrun with warnings of sex slavery rings targeting college kids via summer job interviews for Vector; in the same month the theme park abduction urban legend made an appearance on social sites; simultaneously, an alarming account of purported drug-dispensing teenaged kidnappers in the bathrooms of a Denton, Texas, Dillards department store made the same rounds; and in August 2015, a Hickory, North Carolina woman warned Facebook about what she believed was a brush with sex slave recruiters in the parking lot of a local Walmart. Like the above-linked rumors, the Great Lakes Crossing human trafficking claim resembled many long-circulating urban legends, right down to originating "from a friend of a friend." The use of gifts to lure potential victims at a mall mirrored the similar (false) story about carjackers using $100 bills as bait; another element present in widely-circulated (old) rumors involved ill-intentioned criminals stalking public spaces with laced perfume samples meant to render their victims incapacitated. We contacted the Auburn Hills Police Department to inquire about whether they'd heard the claim; the individual to whom we spoke confirmed that the rumor was "three years old" and had indeed reached their offices. She stated that police investigated the claim to its source and determined it was "completely false," adding that information indicating as such was posted to the department's above-linked, highly informative Facebook page. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Sex Trafficking Facebook Warning Human Trafficking Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy