Recording Captures Tim Kaine Yelling at His Mistress | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Recording Captures Tim Kaine Yelling at His Mistress Audio of actor Mel Gibson yelling at Oksana Girgorieva was shared in as if it captured VP candidate Tim Kaine shouting  at his mistress. Dan Evon Published Oct. 30, 2016 Image courtesy of FLICKR Claim: An audio tape captures VP candidate Tim Kaine yelling at his mistress. Rating: False About this rating On 29 October 2016, the Twitter account @OMFG_America published an audio recording of a man yelling at a woman along with the claim that it featured Vice Presidential candidate Tim Kaine and an unnamed mistress: DEVELOPING: New headaches for VP nominee Tim Kaine as alleged mistress comes forward with tape of threats, verbal abuse. h/t @JerseyJ0E pic.twitter.com/Pd8Ltsol2x — OMFG'ngton SHITPOST (@OMFG_America) October 29, 2016 Tim Kaine is not the man speaking in this audio recording. The dialogue was taken from an infamous recording of actor Mel Gibson yelling at his former girlfriend Oksana Grigorieva, which was first made public in 2010. It should also be noted that Tom Kaine has not been accused of having a mistress or of verbally abusing a woman. This Twitter account launched a baseless accusation at Kaine and backed it up with an unrelated piece of audio. This is the second time that a piece of famous audio has recirculated with Tim Kaine's name attached to it. On 13 October 2016, audio of Alec Baldwin yelling at his daughter was shared as if it featured the voice of Kaine. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Tim Kaine Mel Gibson Election 2016 Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy