Siberian Tigers Stalk Firefighter in Washington Cascades | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Siberian Tigers Stalk Firefighter in Washington Cascades A satirical Facebook group shared a photograph purportedly showing a pair of Siberian tigers stalking a firefighter. Dan Evon Published Feb. 5, 2016 Claim: A photograph shows two Siberian tigers stalking a firefighter in the Washington Cascades. Rating: False About this rating On 2 February 2016, the Facebook group World Trails Foundation shared a photo purportedly showing two Siberian tigers stalking a firefighter in the Washington Cascades: Important Alert! Recently, a U.S. Forestry Department worker was stalked by escaped renegade Siberian Tigers in the Central Washington Cascades! As seen in the photo, the worker was unaware of the tigers while he was hiking on a ski trail. The flash from the camera scared off the beasts, and they remain at large. They're believed to be the tigers who were let loose in the Cascades a decade ago. Long thought dead, it appears these cats are all too alive and healthy. There has been another as yet unconfirmed sighting near Gold Creek Sno-Park. Hikers, snowshoers, snowmobilers and skiers are advised to proceed with caution. Experts recommend carrying a five pound bag of cat food to throw at the cats if pursued. There was no truth to this story, however. There are no "renegade Siberian tigers" roaming the Washington Cascades, and the "World Trails Foundation" is a non-existent organization that promotes recreational trails with fake photographs and fictional stories: The World Trails Foundation is a so far completely fictitious organization dedicated to the promotion and maintenance of the world's recreational trails! In addition to the site's disclaimer, the group's acronym "WTF" hints at the nature of the group's material. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Tiger Animals Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy