Yes, Joanna Gaines from 'Fixer Upper' Is Pregnant | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Yes, Joanna Gaines from 'Fixer Upper' Is Pregnant Joanna and Chip Gaines, stars of the home improvement reality TV show, made the announcement on social media. Dan MacGuill Published Jan. 8, 2018 Image courtesy of Twitter Claim: 'Fixer Upper' star Joanna Gaines is pregnant with her fifth child in January 2018. Rating: True About this rating In January 2018, news broke that Joanna Gaines, star of HGTV's home improvement reality TV show Fixer Upper , was pregnant with her fifth child. Fixer Upper, currently in its final season, has introduced millions of viewers to Gaines and her husband Chip, a Texas couple who scout potential homes for participants, then design and carry out renovations on the show. Their somewhat unlikely stardom has come with relentless tabloid speculation about the state of their marriage as well as scrutiny of the Gaines's business history , parenting , and extended circle of acquaintances . Chip Gaines announced the pregnancy to the world on his Instagram account on 3 January, posting a photo of the couple and writing: Gaines party of 7...(If you're still confused.. WE ARE PREGNANT) Joanna Gaines confirmed the news the following day, posting a photograph of an ultrasound to her 6.3 million Instagram followers. By Dan MacGuill Dan Mac Guill is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Chip And Joanna Gaines Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy