Did Trump Say Crashing the Economy Would Get People Back to Work? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Trump Say Crashing the Economy Would Get People Back to Work? "We have a lot of people that are unemployed that have no idea of getting a job." Bethania Palma Published Jan. 6, 2017 Image courtesy of Evan El-Amin / Shutterstock.com Claim: Donald Trump said that America's economy crashing would get unemployed people off of welfare rolls and back to work. Rating: Correct Attribution About this rating After Donald Trump claimed victory in the 8 November 2016 U.S. presidential election, some critics who were unhappy with that outcome began circulating a quote attributed to Trump that, taken out of context, seemed rather apocalyptic.  It circulated again during the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic of March 2020, as the outbreak threatened to shut down the U.S. economy: "We have a lot of people that are unemployed that have no idea of getting a job.  They love the system, they don't have to work, they're being taken care of, and it's a problem ... You know what solves it? When the economy crashes, when the country goes to total hell, and everything is a disaster, then you’ll have riots to go back to where we used to be, when we were great." Donald Trump did make that remark, albeit in February 2014, well before he announced that he be would running for president in the 2016 election. Trump uttered his statement in passing while he was a phone-in guest to the "Fox & Friends" political talk show discussion about a recent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report holding that Obamacare (i.e., the Affordable Care Act) would cost the nation the equivalent of 2.5 million jobs over the next decade. Trump offered his viewpoint that the Affordable Care Act and other social programs allowed people to "live very nicely" without working and that such a circumstance was highly deleterious to the economy, saying "A lot of people live better without having a job, than they do with a job. I’ve had it where you have people and you want to hire them, but they can’t take the job for a period of nine months because they’re doing better now than they would with a job": https://video.foxnews.com/v/3179604851001/donald-trumps-2014-political-predictions/ Some critics characterized Trump's words to mean that he believed riots and economic chaos could solve the country's woes: In February 2014, Donald Trump joined Fox News to rail against the Obama Administration, including the Affordable Care Act and its economic approach. There was little of substance to support his sweeping remarks. However, given that a President Trump will be taking office in January, his suggested remedy (at the 2:02 mark) stands out. In any case, Trump's comment was a hypothetical statement, not a suggestion that he advocated a policy of deliberately crashing the U.S. economy to get people off of welfare rolls and back to work. Sources Lucas, Scott.    "US Video: Trump’s 2014 Solution — 'Riots to Go Back to When We Were Great.'" EA Worldview .    19 November 2016. Del Signore, John.     "Stay Tuned for Trump's Dystopian Reality Show 'American Kakistocracy'" Gothamist .    17 November 2016. Coppins, McKay.   "36 Hours on the Fake Campaign Trail with Donald Trump." BuzzFeed News .   13 February 2014. Wasson, Erik.   "O-Care Will Cost 2.5M Workers by 2024." The Hill .   4 February 2014. By Bethania Palma Bethania Palma is a journalist from the Los Angeles area who has been working in the news industry since 2006. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy