A Bad Lie | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check A Bad Lie A political golf joke involving Arnold Palmer and Hillary Clinton was mistaken for real news by some readers. Dan Evon Published Oct. 12, 2016 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: The PGA officially has changed the golf term "a bad lie" to "a Hillary" in honor of Arnold Palmer. Rating: False About this rating The passing of golfing legend Arnold Palmer in September 2016 prompted the circulation of an old joke, suitably updated for the current political climate, holding that the PGA had changed the term "a bad lie" (i.e., a disadvantageous shot) to "a Hillary" in accordance with the famous linkster's last wishes: As his final request, Arnold Palmer has suggested that the golf term "bad lie" would be more descriptive if called ... "A Hillary." Today, the PGA has honored Arnold's request and officially approved "A Hillary" in the lexicon of golf terms. Unfortunately, some readers failed to recognize the obvious humor and mistook the anecdote for a factual report.  The jape was originally shared on the "Freedom Sledders" forum on 5 October 2016, where it was posted under the subheading "Today's Joke." The PGA does have a Golf Glossary on their web site which lists and defines various golfing terms. While " a lie " is defined as "the position of the ball when it has come to rest," neither a "bad lie" nor "a Hillary" is included in that glossary. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Arnold Palmer Hillary Clinton Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy