That's One Way to Stop Road Rage | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check That's One Way to Stop Road Rage An animated image purportedly showing a road rage incident was actually taken from an episode of a Russian television series. Dan Evon Published May 23, 2016 Claim: An animated image captures a real-life road rage incident. Rating: False About this rating An animated GIF image purportedly showing a real-life road rage incident (in which occupants of one vehicle cowed the others by waving an automatic rifle at them) has been circulating on social media for several years, frequently attached to titles such as "that's one way to stop road rage."  Although the image is often mistakenly claimed to depict an actual occurrence of road rage, it was actually taken from a 2009 Russian television series titled Desantura (Десантура): "Nobody except us!" It sounds like that is their motto. These bold and desperate guys are able to survive in the most difficult and dangerous situations owing to their advanced combat skills of combat, able to fight not only on the battlefield but also behind enemy lines. They have all the necessary knowledge and skills to stand up against any opponent. The scene portrayed in the above-displayed image can be viewed in fuller context here: By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Automobiles Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy