Misspelled Tickets Issued for 'State of the Uniom' Address? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Misspelled Tickets Issued for 'State of the Uniom' Address? Sitting senators tweeted images of the misspelled tickets on 29 January 2018. David Emery Published Jan. 29, 2018 Claim: Tickets issued for President Trump's first State of the Union address contain a misspelling of the word "union." Rating: True About this rating One day before President Trump's first State of the Union address on 30 January 2018, images appeared on social media of invitations to the event issued by the House of Representatives in which the word "Union" was misspelled "Uniom." Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona) and Senator Marco Rubio (R-Florida), among others, tweeted images of the tickets: Just received my ticket for the State of the Union. Looks like @BetsyDeVosEd was in charge of spell checking... #SOTUniom pic.twitter.com/ZgFTGtTkzv — Raul M. Grijalva (@RepRaulGrijalva) January 29, 2018 Looking forward to tomorrow’s State of the Uniom. pic.twitter.com/xdBUU3Pvo5 — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) January 29, 2018 Although many were quick to blame Republicans and the White House for the snafu, the actual responsibility for issuing the tickets rests with the office of the House of Representatives' sergeant-at-arms. NBC News reported that a source in that office acknowledged the misprint and said replacement tickets are being printed for redistribution. Sources Vitali, Ali and Moe, Alex.  "Tickets to First Trump State of the Union Being Re-Printed After Misspelling." NBC News .  29 January 2018. By David Emery David Emery is a West Coast-based writer and editor with 25 years of experience fact-checking rumors, hoaxes, and contemporary legends. Article Tags Donald Trump President Trump State Of The Union Address Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy