Does This Photograph Show the Cooking Instructions on a Bacon Package? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Does This Photograph Show the Cooking Instructions on a Bacon Package? The instructions on the back label of a bacon package advised consumers to "complain to elected officials" if they "don't know how to cook bacon." David Mikkelson Published Aug. 10, 2018 Image courtesy of Shutterstock Claim: The cooking instructions on a bacon package advised consumers to "contact your elected officials and complain" if they "don't know how to cook bacon." Rating: True About this rating In August 2018, Facebook users began encountering a post showing some seemingly unusual cooking instructions printed on back of a package of bacon. Following some routine wording about pan frying the bacon to "desired crispness," the directions went on to admonish consumers that "If you really don't know how to cook bacon, please contact your elected officials and complain about our education system. Every American should know how to cook bacon ... Seriously" The pictured packaging originated with Black River Meats of North Springfield, Vermont, to whom we reached out to verify that this photograph did indeed capture a regularly sold product of theirs ... and to inquire about what prompted the unorthodox labeling. Sean Buchanan, VP of Sales and Marketing, confirmed to us that this was indeed a photograph of a Black River brand bacon product.  When we asked if the label was merely offered to be amusing or was meant as a somewhat sardonic jab at the American educational system, Buchanan responded that it was intended to be a mixture of humor and seriousness, because what's the world coming to if people don't know how to cook something as simple as bacon? (All the more so because this particular bacon product is packaged fully cooked.) But Buchanan also noted that many consumers have a heightened awareness of, and interest in, food-related issues these days, and he felt the company could better promote food safety awareness if they could get people to "step back and relax a little" by leavening their packaging with some humor to break the tension. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy