Is This a Real Hand With Eight Fingers? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is This a Real Hand With Eight Fingers? A set of images purportedly show a rare congenital syndrome called "ulnar dimelia," also known as "mirror hand syndrome." Dan Evon Published May 3, 2018 Claim: A set of images show a congenital anomaly that resulted in an a hand with eight fingers. Rating: Mixture About this rating What's True "Mirror hand" is a real, documented congenital condition. What's Undetermined Whether these particular images showing the syndrome are genuine. In April 2018, a set of images purportedly showing a hand with eight fingers and no thumbs started to go viral: Although these images were met with a heavy dose of skepticism, we found several reasons to believe that these photographs are genuine. At the very least, they do depict a real syndrome. Many Internet users may have encountered these images on Imgur, where they were posted with a humorous title, or various Facebook pages, where they were shared with some misinformation about " mirror hand syndrome. " These unreliable posts may have made some viewers especially doubtful about its authenticity. However, while we cannot say with authorities that these exact photographs are real, they do show a real condition: Ulnar dimelia , a rare congenital anomaly of the upper limb characterized by "duplication of the ulna, absence of the radius and polydactyly": Ulnar dimelia, called also the mirror-hand, is classified to the 3rd group of congenital hand malformation, according to the classification proposed by Swanson [Swanson 1976] and adopted by the American Society for Surgery of the Hand (ASSH) and the International Federation of Societies for Surgery of the Hand (IFSSH). There have been several documented cases. Dr. Rupesh Namdev of Bilaspur, India documented a similar condition in a seven-year-old girl in 2012. This child also had eight fingers on one hand: Plain radiograph of wrist joint shows polydactyly with duplication of ulna, duplication of ulnar side of carpal bones, metacarpals and phalanges, absence of radius and absence of thumb. Eight triphalangeal digits are seen. The middle phalanx of medial index finger is hypoplastic. Similar cases can be found elsewhere on Radiopaedia.org and the National Center for Biotechnology Information : The condition can be mitigated with surgery . Sources Tomaszewski, Ryszard.   "Ulnar Dimelia-Diagnosis and Management of a Rare Congenital Anomaly of the Upper Limb." Journal of Orthopaedics .   18 February 2015. Jones, Jeremy.   "Ulnar Dimelia." Radiopaedia.org .   Retrieved 2 May 2018. Jameel,Javed.   "Ulnar Dimelia Variant: A Case Report." Journal of Orthopaedics and Traumatology .   12 September 2011. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Medical Medical Anomalies Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy