Is the Russian Army Using Exosuits? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is the Russian Army Using Exosuits? A viral image purportedly shows two Russian soldiers wearing "exosuits" in Syria. Dan Evon Published Feb. 14, 2016 Claim: A photograph shows Russian soldiers wearing "exosuits" in Syria. Rating: False About this rating In February 2016, an image purportedly showing two Russian soldiers wearing "exosuits" in Syria started circulating via English-language web sites after it was posted to the Reddit community forums. Exosuits, or powered exoskeletons, are wearable machines used to enhance ordinary human strength or speed.  They're generally the stuff of dystopian science fiction, but they have been around in one conceptual form or another since the late 1800s.  However, exosuits remain relatively technologically crude at the moment and are not practical for military (or any other) use. This image, which had been circulating on Russian-language web sites (largely the European social network VK.com ) since at least June 2015, was frequently used to illustrate a news story about the Russian military working to develop combat exoskeletons by 2020: A Russian defense contractor says it will be able to mass produce mind-controlled combat exoskeletons for Russian soldiers in five years. The devices would allow the troops to run faster, jump higher and lift weights beyond human capacity. I think in about five years we will have a neuro-interface to control exoskeletons and prosthetics through the brain’s electric impulses,” Aleksandr Kulish, the head of the medical equipment development and manufacturing department of Russia’s United Instrument Manufacturing Corporation, told TASS news agency. The new system could increase the wearer’s strength and endurance many fold, allowing soldiers to make tremendous leaps, lift and throw objects they normally could not, as well as carrying up to 300 kilograms of equipment. Thhis image, however, has little to do with the Russian military or the development of combat exoskeletons, as this photograph was taken on the set of the movie Zaschitniki . Several other photographs from the @zaschitniki2016 Instagram account, as well as the Instagram accounts for various people associated with the film , show the same "exosuits" being used in the same setting: Russia (as well as several other countries, including the United States) is working on "exoskeleton" technology, those "exosuits" are not currently being used in the manner seen above. These photos come from the set of a Russian movie. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags People Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy