Did Ex-Wife Ivana Claim Donald Trump Is Addicted to Penis Enlargement Pills? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Ex-Wife Ivana Claim Donald Trump Is Addicted to Penis Enlargement Pills? A fake news site used a screenshot of Ivana Trump to prop up a false claim she said her famous former husband is "addicted" to penile enhancement drugs. Kim LaCapria Published March 3, 2017 Claim: Ivana Trump claimed her famous ex-husband Donald is addicted to penile enhancement pills. Rating: False About this rating In February 2017, long-hoaxing fake news site Huzlers published an article reporting that in an interview, President Donald Trump's former wife Ivana had claimed her ex-husband was "addicted" to penis enlargement pills: Donald Trump’s socialite ex-wife Ivana, says the President has been addicted to penis enlargement drugs for more than 30 years and still ingests at least 45 pills a day. In an exclusive interview with CNTV-4, Ivana Trumps [sic] claimed the American President is obsessed with the size of his genitals, and has already tested “every product on the market” in order to increase the size of his penis. “When we were married, he would take 5 or 6 different types of drugs at the same time and he used his penis pump twice a day. He would also measure his dick every night to see if it had grown.” According to the former model and socialite, he even overdosed twice, in 1989 and 1991, after ingesting more than 300 penis enlargement pills in a day. “He literally popped pills like candy. It made him sick and gave no results, but he kept taking more and more. It was one of the main reasons we got divorced.” She says the president still takes penis enlargement drugs, but has reduced and stabilized his consumption to approximately 45 to 60 pills a day. The article included a screenshot from a video that readers would infer was a recording of the supposedly recent interview in which Ivana made this startling admission, but in fact the clip from which the screenshot was taken had appeared on YouTube as early as January 2013 and did not include the former Mrs. Trump's mentioning penis enlargement pills. The video has since been deleted, but viewing it isn't necessary to determine that this rumor is not credible, however. This story was reported nowhere but Huzlers, a satire (i.e., fake news) web site dealing solely in salacious falsehoods whose disclaimer notes that it is the “most notorious fauxtire & satire entertainment website in the world.” Huzlers is a well-known culprit in the spread of false information , previously advancing fabricated stories about 15 consecutive days of planetary darkness , cocaine found in Coors Light beer, and AriZona IceD Tea being tainted with urine . By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Huzlers Ivana Trump Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy