Greg Comer Prayer Request | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Greg Comer Prayer Request The lack of dates in prayer chains often causes confusion about the validity of such messages. Dan Evon Published April 25, 2017 Image courtesy of Shutterstock Claim: Prayers are requested for Greg Comer, a North Carolina man who is battling cancer. Rating: Outdated About this rating A message requesting prayers Greg Comer, a man who battled cancer for over six years, is periodically reposted on social media sites: Greg Comer has battled cancer for almost 7 yrs. The doctors are giving him only days to live. Greg is 41, married & has 2 children, Jacob 11 & Alyssa 7. Jacob has asked his Mom for a special request, for everyone to pray for a miracle for his daddy. He wants a prayer chain across the world. Please pray for Greg and help start this prayer chain across the world for Jacob. Copy & re-post, and add your city and state before posting in order to keep prayer chain going. Bethpage Tn Gallatin Tn Gallatin,Tn Shiro, TX Magnolia, TX Conroe, TX Porter, TX Brenham, tx Willis, TX Zanesville, Ohio Dunnellon, Fl Marshalltown, IA. Mountain View, MO Waterford,NJ Magnolia, NJ Amarillo, Texas Pittsburgh, Pa. Honolulu, HI Johnstown PA Phoenix, AZ Sacramento Ca Dix Hills, NY Suwanee Ga Laurel Hollow,NY Chandler, AZ Buffalo, NY East Elmhurst, NY Forest Hills NY It is true that Greg Comer, a 41 year-old North Carolina man, put up a years-long fight against cancer. Unfortunately, however, messages requesting prayers on his behalf are outdated, as Comer has since passed away. This viral Facebook message was first shared in January 2011 . Comer fought the disease for another month before he died on 26 February 2011: Gregory Lee Comer, 41, of Lincolnton, won his battle and was welcomed into Heaven to be with the Lord on February 26th, 2011. He leaves behind - but will see again one day -- his loving wife Tina Hilton Comer (he called his angel, the love of his life); their daughter Alyssa Brooke Comer, and his son Jacob Carl Comer. His loving parents, Ernest & Sue Clemmer Comer; his brother and sister-in-law, Jeff Carl & Emily Albright Comer; grandmother, Catherine Southerland; brother-in-law, Kenneth R. Hilton; brother-in-law and sister-in-law, Mark & Melissa Hilton Saunders; father-in-law and mother-in-law, Tony and Juanita Hilton nieces & nephews, Nick & Katie Sue Comer, Kensie, Kayla and Brodie Hilton and numerous aunts, uncles and cousins. Greg being the man he was would want you not to mourn his loss but rejoice for him. His concern would be for his family through this difficult time. Pray for them to have comfort only God can give because his family and faith gave him strength to battle for so long. Prayer chains are quite popular on social media, but they often contain incomplete, outdated, or inaccurate information.  In many cases, such as this one, the lack of a date in the original message often fosters renewed circulation of information that is no longer current. Sources Legacy.com .   "Greg Comer Obituary."
    28 February 2011. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Prayer Requests Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy