Did ICE Hurl a Pregnant Woman Over a Border Wall? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did ICE Hurl a Pregnant Woman Over a Border Wall? In June 2018, a piece of satire from "The Onion" became more confusing to social media users. Kim LaCapria Published June 26, 2018 Claim: Immigration and Customs Enforcement hurled a pregnant woman over a border wall so she wouldn't have her baby on U.S. soil. Rating: Labeled Satire About this rating In late June 2018, as debate over immigration policies resulting in family separation remained a hot button issue, social media platforms saw the increased spread of a purported photograph of U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials throwing a pregnant woman over the border wall separating Mexico and the United States. ICE Agents Hurl Pregnant Immigrant Over Mexican Border to Prevent Birth on U.S. Soil The photograph and headline stemmed from a 22 January 2018 item published by The Onion which consisted of nothing more than those two elements. The Onion is, of course, a satirical web site that was founded in newspaper form in 1988 . Readers' mistaking The Onion 's humorous material for real news is not uncommon on social media, as demonstrated by questions we've received from readers about warring cruise ships and a photograph of Cuban people clinging to the wings of Air Force One . Like all content originating with The Onion , the photograph and claim about ICE agents and a pregnant woman were purely satirical, not real news. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags The Onion Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy