Michele Bachmann on Columbus Day | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Michele Bachmann on Columbus Day A parody page, not former Republican congresswoman Michele Bachmann, said Christopher Columbus was the first person to set foot on the North American continent. Dan Evon Published Oct. 11, 2016 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: Michele Bachmann said that Christopher Columbus was the first person to set foot on the North American continent. Rating: Labeled Satire About this rating On 10 October 2016, an entertainment Facebook group called "Stop the World, the Teabaggers Want Off" published a meme featuring an image of Michele Bachmann alongside the text of something she supposedly said about the Columbus Day holiday: Of course I celebrate Columbus Day. He founded America with God's help. Nobody was here before him. Without Columbus this entire continent would be an empty piece of land. This is not a real quote from the former Republican congresswoman (and presidential candidate). "Stop the World, the Teabaggers Want Off" is an entertainment Facebook group that frequently creates fake quotes mocking politicians; Bachmann is apparently one of their favorite targets, as the group has attributed several fake quotes to the former United States representative, including one saying that China kept "illegal Mexicans" out of their country by building the Great Wall of China. Columbus Day has become an increasingly controversial holiday, as more cities adopt measures to change the name and focus of the holiday to " Indigenous Peoples' Day " in celebration of the millions who lived on the American continents before their "discovery" by European explorers. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Stop The World The Teabaggers Want Off Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy