Did Starbucks Place Trump's Photo on the Floor So Every Customer Has to Step on It? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Starbucks Place Trump's Photo on the Floor So Every Customer Has to Step on It? An image showing a President Trump welcome mat on the floor of a Starbucks was doctored. Dan Evon Published Feb. 19, 2017 Claim: A photograph shows a Starbucks with an welcome mat featuring a picture of President Trump on its floor. Rating: False About this rating On 16 February 2017, the @TrumpThe45th Twitter account shared an image purportedly showing an outlet of the giant Starbucks coffee chain that was using an image of President Trump as their welcome mat: This image was doctored, as the original does not feature a floor mat with President Donald Trump's picture on it. The original photograph was taken in March 2014 (nearly three years before Trump became president) at a Starbucks in California's Disneyland Resort: Executives with Starbucks open the doors for the first time at the newest coffee shop in Downtown Disney at the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim. The @TrumpThe45th Twitter account, a shill account for the Departed Media fake news site, has previously peddled false stories about President Obama's raising the retirement age,  Vladimir Putin criticizing President Obama, and President Obama's saying that even terrorists have rights. Sources Eades, Mark.   "New Starbucks opens in Downtown Disney at Disneyland with stylish look, interactive features complimenting classic menu." Inside The Magic .   11 March 2014. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Starbucks Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy