FALSE: Justin Trudeau Bans Donald Trump from Entering Canada | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check FALSE: Justin Trudeau Bans Donald Trump from Entering Canada A fake news article claimed that Canadian prime minister justin Trudeau had banned Donald Trump from entering Canada. Dan Evon Published Jan. 26, 2016 Claim: Donald Trump has been banned from entering Canada. Rating: False About this rating On 29 December 2015, the web site Hot Global News published an article reporting that Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau had banned U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump from entering Canada: In a meeting held by the Liberal party earlier this week, party leader and Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau called for the prohibition of Donald Trump from entering Canada effective immediately for as long until Trump publicly apologize for his racist comments against Muslims and Mexicans. "Canada is a free country. Canada is a country that supports all ethnic backgrounds, all cultures and all religions. Donald Trump's speeches have demonstrated his hate towards Muslims and Mexicans. Canada does not tolerate racism or hate. Donald Trump is here by banned from entering Canada for as long as he wishes to show his racism." However, this story was nothing more a work of fiction from Hot Global News a site that clearly states in its disclaimer that it is a satire (i.e., fake news) publication and does not publish factual stories: HotGlobalNews is both a satire news site and real news site. Posts should be read at your own discretion. While Prime Minister Trudeau has not banned Donald Trump from entering Canada, he did say that he strongly disagreed with the GOP candidate's plan to bar Muslims from entering the United States. Shortly after Trump declared that he would prohibit Muslims from entering the United States, Trudeau said that Canada was opposed to "politics of fear and division in our election here." Several online two petitions have called upon Trudeau to ban Trump from entering Canada. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Fake News Donald Trump Justin Trudeau 2016 Presidential Election Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy