Was Officer Nakia Jones Fired After Posting a Viral Police Brutality Video? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Was Officer Nakia Jones Fired After Posting a Viral Police Brutality Video? Nakia Jones said the Warrensville Heights Police Department fired her after she made a video in July 2016 following the shooting death of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Kim LaCapria Published July 8, 2016 Claim: Police officer Nakia Jones was fired after expressing her thoughts about police brutality in a viral Facebook live video. Rating: Mixture About this rating On 6 July 2016, police officer Nakia Jones published a candid video via Facebook Live, during which she discussed the Alton Sterling shooting controversy : Jones' video was viewed more than six million times in just two days, rapidly introducing her to a massive social media audience. Not long after the video was shared widely, the website Ask Kissy published a post claiming Jones had been disciplined (or possibly fired) for airing her views on the social network. The site appeared to conclude from statements made by Jones at a press conference that she had been suspended or terminated from her position: New York-area radio station WQHT further stirred the pot in a blog post suggestively titled "Did Officer Nakia Jones Get Fired for Speaking Against Police?!" However, the tail end of that post said noted that "The mayor of Warrensville, Ohio, Brad Sellers shot down the rumors during a recent press conference." Cleveland affiliate WOIO had previously reported that Jones was neither fired nor suspended for her viral video, making WAHT's a headline misleading one: Mayor Brad Sellers said Jones did not violate the social media policy that is currently in place. She is currently on full duty at the police department and there was not violations of any policies with the City of Warrensville Heights. The city said it's received threats to city hall by the KKK. Media personality Roland Martin also attempted to halt the spread of the rumor: Well over a year later, in October 2017, Officer Jones was fired from the department for misusing paid leave time following an on-duty car crash in May 2017.  She subsequently filed a lawsuit contending that the paid leave issue was merely an excuse for retaliating against her over the video she had posted back in 2016. Sources Ask Kissy .   "It's No Surprise That Police Officer Nakia Jones Got Suspended for Speaking The Truth [VIDEO]."
    8 July 2016. WQHT .   "Did Officer Nakia Jones Get Fired For Speaking Against Police?! [PHOTO]."
    8 July 2016. WOIO .   "Mayor: Warrensville Officer Did Not Violate Social Media Policy."
    8 July 2016. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Alton Sterling Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy