Do Members of Congress Enjoy Free Health Care? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Do Members of Congress Enjoy Free Health Care? According to memes, Congressional members and staffers are offered free, no-strings-attached health care, but there's more to the story. Stephanie Larsen Published March 15, 2017 Updated July 22, 2020 Image courtesy of Shutterstock Claim: Congressional members receive free, high-quality health care. Rating: Mixture About this rating Prior to the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (also known as ACA, or Obamacare ), members of Congress received the same healthcare insurance benefits as any other federal employee through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP . During the mark-up of the ACA bill, however, lawmakers inserted a provision (Section 1312(d)(3)(D)) that requires members of Congress and designated congressional staff members to obtain their health insurance through ACA exchanges rather than continue to receive their healthcare coverage through the FEHBP. As of 1 January 2014, Members of Congress (MOC) and Congressional staff purchase their insurance through the District of Columbia’s small business health options program (SHOP) exchange, also known as DC Health Link . Contrary to popular belief, Congressional members do not receive free health care. As it does for other federal employees who purchase their insurance through the FEHBP, the federal government provides a subsidy equivalent to 72 percent of the weighted average of all FEHBP premiums. Therefore, MOC and staff pay approximately 28 percent of their annual healthcare premiums through pre-tax payroll deductions. Although DC's SHOP offers a total of 57 different ACA insurance plans at the bronze, silver, gold and platinum levels, the Office of Personnel Management has ruled that MOC and staff may only receive the employer contribution if they purchase insurance at the gold tier. If we look solely at the District of Columbia's SHOP health plans and federal employer contributions, Members of Congress receive benefits very similar to those enjoyed by any employee of a large company. The bottom line is this: Members of Congress and their staff members are required by law to purchase their health insurance through the exchanges offered by the Affordable Care Act. However, the federal government subsidizes approximately 72 percent of the premium cost. Like those late-night Ginzu knife commercials on late-night TV, however: "but wait, there’s more!" MOC and their staff are also eligible to set salary aside in Flex 125 savings plans, which help the employee pay for healthcare and childcare expenses with pre-tax dollars. If they enroll in high-deductible health plans (which is unlikely, since only the gold plans offer an employer contribution), they can also enroll in health savings accounts. If Members of Congress or staff purchase dental and vision coverage, they pay 100 percent of their premiums through pre-tax dollars. They pay 100 percent of any premiums for long-term care insurance with after-tax dollars. Again, these benefits are similar to those offered by many large employers. However, there are two areas where Members of Congress (not staff or family members) can receive free or low-cost health care that the average citizen cannot access. The first is having access to the Office of the Attending Physician . For an annual fee (unspecified), MOC can receive limited care for routine examinations, consultations, and certain diagnostic tests. The second option is also only available to current Members of Congress. In the Capital region only, they may receive free medical outpatient care at military facilities. If they are outside of the Capital region or if they need inpatient care, then MOC must pay 100 percent of the full cost of that military health care. Finally, upon separation from political life, Members of Congress may purchase FEHBP insurance if they are otherwise eligible for retirement and if they have had five years of continuous healthcare coverage under their DC SHOP plans. If the Affordable Care Act is repealed, members of Congress have a fallback plan. They would be able to return to the FEHBP. Twenty million other Americans won't. Sources Cornell, Ada S.  "Health Benefits for Members of Congress and Designated Congressional Staff: In Brief." Congressional Research Service .   13 January 2017. Frank, Jeffre.   "On Healthcare, We’ll Have What Congress Is Having." The New Yorker .   17 January 2017. Updates Correction [22 July 2020]: Corrected to say that members of Congress pay 100% of long-term care premiums via after-tax dollars, not pre-tax. By Stephanie Larsen Stephanie Larsen is a former writer for Snopes. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy