Sarah Silverman: Killing Jesus | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Sarah Silverman: Killing Jesus After Sarah Silverman appeared at the July 2016 Democratic National Convention, images popped up claiming she made offensive statements about Jews killing Jesus. Kim LaCapria Published Aug. 1, 2016 Claim: Sarah Silverman said "I hope the Jews did kill Jesus, I'd do it again in a second!" Rating: Mixture About this rating What's True During Sarah Silverman's 2005 stand-up performance "Jesus is Magic," the comedian joked that the Jews killed Jesus. and she would "do it again." What's False Sarah Silverman did not say outside the setting of a stand-up comedy routine that she genuinely wished to "kill Jesus." After comedian Sarah Silverman appeared at the 2016 Democratic National Convention, a number of images began circulating quoting the comic as having previously made offensive comments about "the Jews ... kill[ing] Jesus": The images emerged as a general political critique of Democrats, their values, and their surrogates, largely without any context about what they were referencing. The images essentially suggested Silverman had stated that she'd personally opt to "kill Jesus" again if given the chance, and that she surmised in a straightforward fashion that Jewish people should take credit for His death. It wasn't difficult to authenticate the quote; in the clips below (which contain profanity), Silverman is captured making the remarks as part of her stand-up routine. In one very truncated clip, Silverman's routine (in which she touched on the historical assignation of blame for Jesus' death to the Jews) was condensed to that single joke: In another, the remarks were put into additional context as a longer routine about her then-relationship with a Catholic man. The quip in question provided the name for the 2005 stand-up set in question, " Jesus Is Magic ": Whether or not Sarah Silverman's joking about killing Jesus in the context of a comedy routine is offensive to Christians (or others) is a subjective issue. However, what was objective about the comment is that it was made as part of a stand-up comedy performance as part of a riff on religion and interfaith relationships. Silverman also joked about explaining to a potential child that "Mommy is one of [God's] chosen people" whereas "Daddy [believes] 'Jesus is magic.'" No portion of the 2005 stand-up material was intended to be taken as a literal statement. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags DNC Jesus Out Of Context Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy