Did 'Express' Use the Male Gender Symbol for a Women's Rights Cover? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did 'Express' Use the Male Gender Symbol for a Women's Rights Cover? The Washington Post's free daily newspaper mistakenly used a male gender symbol to illustrate a cover story about women's rights. Dan Evon Published Jan. 5, 2017 Image courtesy of Shutterstock.com Claim: The Washington Post's free daily newspaper used a male gender symbol to illustrate a cover story about women's rights. Rating: True About this rating On 5 January 2017, an image purportedly showing the cover of Express, a free daily newspaper produced by the Washington Post, was widely circulated on social media. The image showed a group of women forming the shape of the male gender symbol, despite the fact that the cover story was about a women's rights march planned for the day after President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration: The image was widely circulated by viewers poking fun at Express for their mistake, but the glaring and seemingly obvious error caused some to wonder if the purported cover image was real. The graphic reproduced above does show a real cover produced for the Express story on a women's rights march. It was marketed as a "Print Edition" by the Washington Post was reportedly passed out to commuters in Washington, D.C., and was made available as a PDF download: Shortly after the image went viral, the Express issued an apology via Twitter and shared a new version of the cover featuring a group of women standing in the shape of the female gender symbol: This is how the cover should have looked. We apologize for the mistake. pic.twitter.com/MKKOkHPV8T — Express (@WaPoExpress) January 5, 2017 Sources Parker, Ryan.   "Washington Post Express Puts Male Symbol on Women's Inauguration March Cover." Hollywood Reporter .   5 January 2017. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Gender Women's March Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy