Did Trump Tell George Soros to 'Go to Hell' at Davos? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Trump Tell George Soros to 'Go to Hell' at Davos? A well-known purveyor of fake news spread the fabricated claim that President Trump called out George Soros at the 2018 World Economic Forum. David Emery Published Jan. 29, 2018 Image courtesy of Christopher Halloran/Shutterstock.com Claim: At the 2018 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, President Trump told billionaire George Soros to "go to hell." Rating: False About this rating President Trump and billionaire George Soros made separate appearances at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland in late January 2018, supplying fodder for a fake news article holding that the two had been witnessed having a face-to-face confrontation there. The unreliable web site YourNewsWire published a " report " on 29 January stating that Trump had told Soros, who gave a speech highly critical of the president at Davos, to "Go to hell": A female reporter with a German accent asked President Trump, who had just taken his seat, “Why are you smiling so broadly, like the cat that got the cream?“ Before President Trump could answer, U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen, seated on the far left in the photo, said, “He is smiling because he just told George Soros to go to hell.” Mainstream media from around the world reported on George Soros’ speech at Davos, which he dedicated entirely to criticizing President Trump. Attempting to convince the world that Trump’s presidency is “a danger to the world.“ Unsurprisingly, given YourNewsWire's long record of posting fabricated and politically slanted content, no such exchange between a journalist and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen was reported (or even mentioned in passing) by any reputable media source on the planet. Nor can any such exchange be seen or heard in video of the 25 January dinner meeting attended by Trump, Nielsen, and various European business leaders: It is true that George Soros, who, in addition to being a billionaire financier and philanthropist, is a longtime supporter of progressive candidates and causes, delivered a speech at the Davos conference in which he said "I consider the Trump administration a danger to the world." But there is no evidence that Trump responded directly to Soros's comments in public at all, much less told him in front of witnesses to "go to hell." Sources Lucey, Catherine.  "Trump in Davos: Threatens Palestinians, Reassures Brits." Associated Press .  25 January 2018. Porzecanski, Katia.  "George Soros Says Trump Administration Is 'Danger to the World.'" Bloomberg .  25 January 2018. By David Emery David Emery is a West Coast-based writer and editor with 25 years of experience fact-checking rumors, hoaxes, and contemporary legends. Article Tags Fake News Donald Trump George Soros Yournewswire President Trump Yournewswire.com Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy