Bill Clinton Said Hillary Suffered More Than 'Those Guys in Benghazi' | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Bill Clinton Said Hillary Suffered More Than 'Those Guys in Benghazi' President Clinton's remark about being "amazed" at what his wife was "put through" during the Benghazi hearings was spun into something he didn't say. Kim LaCapria Published July 28, 2016 Claim: Bill Clinton said that testifying at congressional hearings meant that "Hillary suffered more than those guys in Benghazi." Rating: False About this rating After Hillary Clinton was formally nominated as the Democratic presidential nominee in July 2016, a meme began recirculating suggesting that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, said that Hillary "suffered more" than the four Americans killed in an attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, on 11 September 2012. A screenshot from a Fox News segment overlaid with the controversial statement (offered as a commentary and not a direct quote) was circulated alongside the claim: An image search for this graphic led to a since-deleted 6 February 2016 article published by Radix News from which the graphic appeared to have originated, although content supporting the added statement was not contained within that article: Kate Quigley, sister of Benghazi victim Glen Doherty, was shocked when Bill Clinton said he was amazed what his wife was “put through” when she had to answer hours of questions from the Benghazi Select Committee. “The insensitivity of that comment is shocking,” Quigley said on Fox News’ “The Kelly File.” “But clearly misguided sympathy runs in the family.” The "put through" quote was taken from a 22 January 2016 Fox News segment during which anchor Megyn Kelly interviewed the sister of Benghazi victim Glen Doherty: A companion article referenced the same quote: Kate Quigley, sister of Benghazi victim Glen Doherty, joined Megyn Kelly tonight to react to Bill Clinton saying that he was amazed what his wife was "put through" when she had to answer hours of questions from the Benghazi Select Committee. The Fox News article featured a chyron that correctly matched the content of the referenced news segment and did not include the added (and apocryphal) "Hillary suffered more" comment: As the video embedded above demonstrates, Bill Clinton lamented the lengthy hearings his wife endured over the Benghazi attack, but he did not state that she "suffered more" from the process than the victims of the attack did. Sources Fox News Insider .   "Benghazi Victim's Sister Shocked by Bill Clinton's Comments."
    22 January 2016. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Benghazi Bill Clinton Hillary Clinton Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy