Kermit Gosnell as Surprise DNC Speaker | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Kermit Gosnell as Surprise DNC Speaker Incarcerated former abortion provider Kermit Gosnell did not appear at the 2016 Democratic National Convention. Kim LaCapria Published July 28, 2016 Claim: Incarcerated former abortion provider Kermit Gosnell made a surprise appearance at the Democratic National Convention. Rating: Labeled Satire About this rating On 28 July 2016, the fake news site Babylon Bee published an article claiming Kermit Gosnell (currently in prison for life) was a surprise speaker at the Democratic National Convention (DNC): Rumors had been floating around the 2016 Democratic National Convention all week about a “special surprise speaker” set to address the crowd on its final day. That speaker turned out to be Kermit Gosnell, infamous abortion provider and barbaric serial killer of born-alive infants, who was beamed in to speak Thursday from the Huntingdon prison where he is currently serving life without the possibility of parole. After being introduced as “champion of women’s rights, martyr for the greater cause, and fearless liberator, Dr. Kermit Gosnell,” the audience erupted into a frenzied applause which lasted more than ten minutes. Planned Parenthood CEO Cecile Richards, who was in attendance, became overcome with emotion and fainted, according to reports from the convention. Once the cheers and cries of “Free Kermit! Free Kermit!” died down, the horrific mass murderer addressed the people from the dark prison room where, after Barack Obama reportedly “pulled some strings with officials,” he was allowed the opportunity to give the speech. Gosnell, tried and convicted in 2013 on three counts of first-degree murder and related charges, was not a speaker at the event due to the fact that he remained incarcerated. Prominent abortion opponent Jill Stanek boosted the fallacious claim: Readers who bothered to click through and scroll down to the bottom of the article would have noted the disclaimer displayed on every page of the Babylon Bee : The Babylon Bee is Your Trusted Source For Christian News Satire. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags The Babylon Bee Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy