Hillary Clinton Said Children Should Be Raised by the State? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Hillary Clinton Said Children Should Be Raised by the State? A fabricated quote from Hillary Clinton saying children should be "raised and trained" by the state originated with one of many sites dedicated to spreading misinformation about presidential candidates. Dan Evon Published Feb. 29, 2016 Image courtesy of Instagram Claim: Hillary Clinton said children should be raised and trained by the state, and parents should have only a secondary role. Rating: False About this rating In February 2016, a meme featuring a picture of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, along with a statement supposedly uttered by her about the role government should play in raising children, began to make the social media rounds: This image was originally shared by the "Shocking Hillary Clinton Quotes" Tumblr Page, one of many web sites dedicated to false information and misinformation about presidential candidates across the political continuum. Although the Tumblr page stated that their material consisted of "100% sourced and verified quotes," we investigated several of the entries shared by that page and found all of them to be false. The Tumblr page made its agenda clear in its description, "Get to know the psychopath known as Hillary Clinton a little better." We attempted to unearth this quote in the pages of Clinton's 1996 book It Takes a Village: And Other Lessons Children Teach Us , but (unsurprisingly) came up empty-handed. The only credible publication to connect this quote to Hillary Clinton was the Tallahassee Democrat .  That connection, however, was posted on 26 October 2015 (a day after the putative quote appeared on the "Shocking Hillary Clinton Quotes" Tumblr page) and appeared in the web site's " Zing " section, which features opinions and "snappy one-liners" from anonymous users. While it's true that Hillary Clinton published a book in 1996 called It Takes a Village: And Other Lessons Children Teach Us , it does not include the statement in question, and Clinton (a parent herself) has not said at any point that she believes children should be raised primarily by the state, with their parents taking a secondary role. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Hillary Clinton Questionable Quotes Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy