Trump Threatened Military Action Against Mexico? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Trump Threatened Military Action Against Mexico? An image purportedly showing a tweet in which Donald Trump threatened military action against Mexico is a hoax. Dan Evon Published Dec. 27, 2016 Image courtesy of Evan El-Amin / Shutterstock.com Claim: Donald Trump threatened military action against Mexico in a tweet sent on Christmas Eve. Rating: False About this rating On 25 December 2016, the web site BigNewsStories.com reported that Donald Trump posted a message to Twitter the night before, threatening military action against Mexico: Many people feared the possibility of electing Donald Trump into office. This fear has begun to prove itself worthy as Trump moves closer to taking Obama’s seat in the white house. During the 2016 U.S. presidential election, republican party nominee Donald Trump had people up in arms over his alarming tweets. Now that he will be assuming office, these tweets could have some serious backlash. At 4:21 PM on Christmas eve, he published, arguably, his most frightening tweet to date. He wrote “Mexico allowing illegals across our American boarder could become grounds for military action. This is not a real tweet sent by President-elect Trump, and it does not appear anywhere on his timeline .  BigNewsStories.com updated their article to add the claim that Trump quickly removed the tweet, but this is also untrue. First, there is no record of this statement ever having existed, whether in retweet form (despite the tweet appearing to have been retweeted several hundred times) or on the Sunlight Foundation 's archive of his deleted tweets. Second, there are multitudes of sites that allow pranksters to create fake social media posts from celebrities, and this is not the first time that a hoax tweet from Donald Trump has circulated on social media. In December 2016, one fake post appeared to announce that Nickelback was headlining during Trump's inauguration, and another hoax tweet purported to threaten actor Alec Baldwin for his performance on "Saturday Night Live. " By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Twitter Mexico Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy