'Stranger Things' Season Two to be Written by Stephen King? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check 'Stranger Things' Season Two to be Written by Stephen King? An article that reported Stephen King would be writing the second season of the popular television show came from a satire news site. Dan Evon Published Aug. 22, 2016 Claim: The second season of 'Stranger Things' will be written by Stephen King. Rating: False About this rating On 20 August 2016, entertainment web site TheStudioExec.com reported that the second season of popular Netflix series Stranger Things would be written by horror author Stephen King: It was the hit of the Summer. A genuinely thrilling Netflix Original Series and everyone was crazy for it, with many commenting on how it was like vintage Stephen King filmed by vintage Steven Spielberg. Well now that comparison seems to have paid off as Stephen King, a declared fan of the show, has volunteered to script the entirety of Season 2 of the show. Brothers Matt and Ross Duffer announced the news EXCLUSIVELY to the Studio Exec and had this to say about the collaboration. While the above-quoted story featured a believable premise — Variety dubbed Stranger Things " the show that Steven Spielberg and Stephen King never made" in a 9 June 2016 article — there is no truth to the claim that King has joined the show's writer room, as The Studio Exec does not publish factual stories: Established in 2012, the Studio Exec is a satirical movie based website, publishing spoof news, reviews and comedy masterpieces. Stranger Things was created by the writing team of Matt and Ross Duffer, and the Duffer brothers have made no announcements that they would be handing over writing duties to King — or to any other writers. As of 21 August 2016, a second season of the hit show has still not been confirmed. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Netflix Television Radio & TV Stephen King Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy