Trump Cuts Veteran Suicide Hotline Funding? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Trump Cuts Veteran Suicide Hotline Funding? Reports that President Trump eliminated funding for a veterans' suicide hotline are fake news. Dan Evon Published March 13, 2017 Image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons Claim: President Donald Trump cut funding for the veteran suicide hotline. Rating: False About this rating On 11 March 2017, the web site The Satira Tribune published an article reporting that President Donald Trump had cut funding for the veteran suicide hotline to avoid the appearance of "our soldiers being weak": The political move will cut spending by 40% to $450,000 per year. “We don’t want the showing of our soldiers being weak, so I’m closing that hotline down at some point. Trust me, I’m doing them a favor,” said President Donald Trump. “In the long run, they will all be thanking me about how it was genius, extremely genius move on my part.” Trump aids said he worked on this hundred thousand dollar hotline that serviced nearly 2 million veterans per month. “His top priority this week was to cut the veteran suicide thing hotline or whatever,” said an aid. “He was obsessed with it.” This article was a piece of fiction from The Satira Tribune, a web site with a history of publishing fake news stories that carries a brief disclaimer noting that it traffics in "satirical and futuristic news." A New York Times article concerning the plight of veterans with regard to health care, suicide, homelessness, and post-traumatic stress disorder published on the same day as this piece of satire made no mention of President Trump's alleged decision to cut funding for a veterans' suicide hotline. Furthermore, the Veteran Crisis Line web site has not made any announcements concerning a lack of funding due to decisions made by the Trump administration. The web site is still operational, and the phone line (1-800-273-8255) is still taking calls. Sources The New York Times .   "A Lifeline for Troubled Veterans."
    11 March 2017. Satira Tribune .   "Trump Cuts Veteran Suicide Hotline Funding."
    11 March 2017. Shear, Michael.   "Trump to Seek $54 Billion Increase in Military Spending." New York Times .   27 February 2017. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Donald Trump Satira Tribune Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy