Finding the 'Hidden' iPhone 7 Headphone Jack | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Finding the 'Hidden' iPhone 7 Headphone Jack Drilling a small hole into the shell of an iPhone 7 won't help you find the device's "hidden" headphone jack. Dan Evon Published Sept. 12, 2016 Claim: Drilling into the shell of an iPhone 7 will reveal the device's missing headphone jack. Rating: False About this rating One of the many prominent rumors circulated about Apple's iPhone 7 long before its September 2016 unveiling (and confirmed afterwards) was that the device would no longer include a traditional 3.55 mm headphone jack.  Instead, Apple announced, the iPhone 7 would come with a set of Apple earbuds designed to plug into the phone's Lightning connector port. Shortly afterwards, some online pranksters played on that change, circulating a fool's errand image suggesting that the headphone jack was still present on the new phones but "hidden behind the casing" and could be accessed by drilling a small hole in the device's shell: We shouldn't have to point out (but we will) that no amount of drilling will turn up the iPhone 7's "hidden" headphone jack, as such a jack is no longer a feature included with that device.  It's possible the image was created simply as a joke mocking the company's decision to drop the headphone jack, a decision that Apple's Phil Schiller maintained was made to make room for other, newer features: This is really important, our smartphones are packed with technologies ... it’s all fighting for space. Maintaining an ancient analogue connector doesn’t make sense. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Apple IPhone Technology Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy