Has Facebook Launched a 'No Swearing' Campaign? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Has Facebook Launched a 'No Swearing' Campaign? Reports that Facebook has instituted a 'no swearing' campaign and threatened to lock the accounts of violators are a hoax. Kim LaCapria Published March 3, 2014 Image courtesy of Jurgen Appelo/Flickr Claim: Facebook has instituted a 'no swearing' campaign and threatened to lock the accounts of users who employ profanity. Rating: False About this rating A three-year-old claim that Facebook would implement a "no swearing" campaign to create a "family-friendly social-network" -- and would lock or shut down the accounts of offenders -- was revived in a 2017 meme: The meme was a rehash of a similar March 2014 meme purporting to be a message from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg saying that the move came at the request of advertisers: Oddly, both memes referred to "new laws issued by [Facebook's] legal department." Though we can't imagine it needs clarifying, Facebook does not have the legal authority to create laws in the United States or anywhere else. Only elected officials and legislative bodies can do so. Needless to say, Facebook has made no such announcement nor sent any statement about launching an anti-profanity campaign like the one described here. Note that the date of implementation in the 2017 example coincides with April Fools Day. Facebook does provide optional profanity filters that will block posts containing certain offensive words, and Facebook's Community Standards and Statement of Rights and Responsibilities sets down some guidelines about posts that might be considered hate speech. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Facebook Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy