Michael Jordan to North Carolina: 'HB2 Goes or the Charlotte Hornets Go' | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Michael Jordan to North Carolina: 'HB2 Goes or the Charlotte Hornets Go' An article reporting that Michael Jordan threatened to move the Charlotte Hornets came from a site that specializes in fake news. Dan Evon Published May 11, 2016 Image courtesy of Instagram Claim: Michael Jordan threatened to move the Charlotte Hornets out of North Carolina over the state's HB2 bathroom law. Rating: False About this rating On 10 May 2016, a fake news article reported that Michael Jordan had threatened to move the Charlotte Hornets out of North Carolina over the state's controversial HB2 bathroom law: NBA legend and Charlotte Hornets‘ owner, Michael Jordan, held a press conference today, announcing his intentions to move the Hornets out of North Carolina if the state does not revoke its controversial HB2 law. “With this new law in place, North Carolina currently does not have any anti-discrimination protection in place, something that is vital, not just for our fans but for everyone,” Jordan told reporters. “We are giving the state of North Carolina 30 days to repeal this law or they can expect the the Charlotte Hornets to play elsewhere. I want to make it clear that neither the Hornets nor I will not stand for this type of intolerance and hate.” The above-displayed quote was fabricated out of whole cloth. However, while the NBA legend did not threaten to move the Charlotte Hornets out of North Carolina, he has spoken out about the controversial law. On 27 April 2016, Jordan released a statement to CBS : “As my organization has stated previously, the Charlotte Hornets and Hornets Sports & Entertainment are opposed to discrimination in any form, and we have always sought to provide an inclusive environment,” Jordan said in a statement to the Observer in response to an interview request regarding HB2, the North Carolina law called by some as discriminatory toward the LGBT community As has been the case since the building opened, we will continue to ensure that all fans, players and employees feel welcome while at work or attending NBA games and events at Time Warner Cable Arena.” By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags HB2 North Carolina Michael Jordan Abcnews.com.co Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy