Has Pluto Been Officially Reclassified as a Planet? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Has Pluto Been Officially Reclassified as a Planet? The decade-long debate over Pluto's planetary status has provided fodder for April Fool's Day jokes and fake news. Kim LaCapria Published Jan. 29, 2018 Image courtesy of Dotted Yeti / Shutterstock.com Claim: The International Astronomical Union (IAU) issued a press release stating that Pluto has been reclassified as a planet. Rating: False About this rating Ever since the controversial August 2006 decision by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) to downgrade Pluto to a dwarf planet, debate over the former planet's status has continued both in science and in pop culture . In late January 2018, drawing on this debate, rumors about Pluto's "reclassification" as a planet appeared on Facebook and Twitter: Congratulations Pluto, we always knew you were a planet. https://t.co/mrzy1UNlqd — AltYellowstoneNatPar (@AltYelloNatPark) January 29, 2018 Most iterations linked back to an undated 2017 item published on the web site Untold Universe, which reported: Today is a historic day—one that will bring joy to the hundreds of millions of Pluto lovers around the globe. The International Astronomical Union (IAU), the body that is responsible for naming and classifying objects in the cosmos, has just announced that Pluto has been reclassified as a major planet. [...] After years of deliberation, the IAU announced in a press release that they have reclassified the icy world—they upgraded Pluto back to its proper standing as a planet. “We simply underestimated the public’s attachment to Pluto. Although Untold Universe listed no source for the claim (which no other outlets reported), the text was taken nearly word-for-word from a 1 April 2017 article published by Futurism.com. Missing from the republished version were these important final words: ... Hopefully, the new class of planet will be created without a hitch, and Pluto will be added as the first member. It’s only fair.” Say it with me now, “Yay!” ... also, have a happy April Fool’s. Futurism.com's link to the IAU's "press release" announcing Pluto's reclassification actually lead to the Google results for "April Fool's Day." By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags NASA Pluto April Fool's Day Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy