Free Southwest Tickets Scam | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Free Southwest Tickets Scam Southwest Airlines is not giving away free air travel tickets to those who share and comment on Facebook posts. David Mikkelson Published June 16, 2020 Image courtesy of Chris Parypa Photography / Shutterstock.com Claim: Southwest Airlines is giving away free air travel tickets to those who share and comment on Facebook posts. Rating: Scam About this rating In June 2020, Facebook users began encountering posts purportedly from Southwest Airlines offering free round-trip flights to 500 people who shared and commented on their posts: This offer was a scam and not a genuine Southwest Airlines promotion, and users who clicked through on the posts were taken to an impostor Facebook page for Southwest Airlines that had just been established within the previous day: Scammers and malware purveyors are always looking for ways to entice online users into following web links that will lead those victims into the traps set for them, and offers of free airline tickets are prime bait in that pursuit of prey. Airline tickets are something nearly everyone uses and have considerable value, but their non-material nature and the fact that they're not tremendously expensive (compared to, say, a new car) makes it seem plausible to the public that they're something a business might actually be giving away for free as part of an advertising promotion. The name of Southwest Airlines, a major U.S. airline which is also the world's largest low-cost carrier, has frequently been invoked in various online "free ticket" giveaway scams in recent years. Sources Geelan-Sayres, Jane.   "That Free Ticket Link Is Too Good to Be True." NBC-DFW.com .   14 November 2011. Sabatinell, Blake.   "Free Southwest Ticket Scam Rapidly Spreading on Facebook." ABC Action News .   14 November 2011. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy