Did Obama Give Syria $195 Million to Celebrate a Muslim Holiday? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Obama Give Syria $195 Million to Celebrate a Muslim Holiday? The White House announced in 2013 that the U.S. would provide an additional $195 million for food and humanitarian aide to Syria, not for the celebration of a Muslim holiday. Dan Evon Published Dec. 17, 2015 Claim: President Obama gave Syria $195 million to celebrate a Muslim holiday. Rating: Mixture About this rating What's True The U.S. provided $195 million in food and humanitarian aid to Syria in 2013. What's False The U.S. gave Syria $195 million in 2015 for the celebration of a Muslim holiday. On 15 December 2015, the disreuptable American News web site recycled an old article claiming that President Obama had given $195 million to Syria in honor of a Muslim Holiday: The Facebook post shown above redirected users to an article originally published by American News a year and half earlier, on 6 July 2014: According to recent reports, President Obama has decided to give 195 million taxpayer dollars to Syria to celebrate the Muslim holiday Eid al-Fitr. Once again it appears Obama is unilaterally deciding what is best for the United States. What do you think? Are there better ways to spend American tax dollars? Although the American News article accurately quoted an official White House press release, its reposting in December 2015 deliberately misled readers into believing the release's contents were current news. In fact President Obama's announcement that the United States would be providing additional humanitarian aid to Syria has been issued over two years earlier, on 7 August 2013: Michelle and I send our warmest greetings to Muslims celebrating Eid al-Fitr here in the United States and around the world. During the past month, Muslims have honored their faith through prayer and service, fasting and time spent with loved ones. At this year’s White House Iftar, I was proud to spend time with some of the many American Muslims whose contributions enrich our democracy and strengthen our economy. Many of us have had the opportunity to break fast with our Muslim friends and colleagues — a tradition that reminds us to be grateful for our blessings and to show compassion to the less fortunate among us, including millions of Syrians who spent Ramadan displaced from their homes, their families, and their loved ones. To help the many Syrians in need this Eid al-Fitr, the United States is providing an additional $195 million in food aid and other humanitarian aid, bringing our humanitarian contribution to the Syrian people to over $1 billion since the crisis began. For millions of Americans, Eid is part of a great tapestry of America’s many traditions, and I wish all Muslims a blessed and joyful celebration. It should also be noted that the United States did not give $195 million in cash to Syria simply to allow them to celebrate a Muslim holiday. The $195 million came in the form of food and other humanitarian aid and was intended to provide needed relief to citizens experiencing hardship and suffering in that war-torn country; the announcement was merely timely in that it coincided with the beginning of the important Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr that year. [article-meta] By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Islam Syria Barack Obama Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy