Donald Trump Jr.: Our Greenskeeper Skipped His Sister's Wedding | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Donald Trump Jr.: Our Greenskeeper Skipped His Sister's Wedding Donald Trump's son said that the family's greenskeeper missed his own sister's wedding in order to work for the Trumps. Brooke Binkowski Published July 19, 2016 Image courtesy of Twitter Claim: Donald Trump Jr. tweeted that the family's greenskeeper missed his own sister's wedding in order to work for the Trumps. Rating: True About this rating Back in June 2012, Donald Trump Jr. tweeted that the family's greenskeeper, in a display of supreme loyalty to his employers, had missed his own sister's wedding in order to work for the Trumps: At dinner w our greenskeeper who missed his sister's wedding 2 work (luv loyalty 2 us) "No big deal hopefully she'll have another someday";) — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 22, 2012 The tweet lay dormant for several years until 19 July 2016, when Trump Jr. spoke in support of his father, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. As the younger Trump received praise and some accusations of plagiarism for his speech, someone found and began circulating the old tweet, which quickly picked up steam on social media. Whether Trump Jr. was describing an actual event or was attempting to make a joke is not known.  The tweet itself, however, is real. By Brooke Binkowski Brooke Binkowski is a former editor for Snopes. Article Tags Republicans Donald Trump Donald Trump Jr. 2016 Presidential Campaign Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy