Did Police Shoot a White Coal Miner, Thinking He Was Black? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Police Shoot a White Coal Miner, Thinking He Was Black? A report that police shot a white coal miner in Kentucky after mistaking him for a black man is fake news. Kim LaCapria Published Oct. 13, 2016 Claim: Kentucky police shot a white coal miner after mistaking him for a black man. Rating: False About this rating On 29 September 2016, the World News Daily Report web site published an article reporting that police in Kentucky had shot a white coal miner after mistaking him for a black man: Officers of the Bell County Sheriff Department have mistakenly shot an unarmed coal miner, thinking he was a black criminal. 37-year old Jason Morris had just finished his night shift in a mine operated by the Bell County Coal Corporation and was boarding his vehicle to head home, when the deputies arrived. Seeing a dark faced individual enter a brand new Lincoln Navigator worth more than $75,000, the officers believed he was an African American man attempting to steal a vehicle. After he ignored three shouted warnings from the deputies, Mr Morris was shot five times in the back, in both legs and in the left arm. Many miners witnessed the incident, and all of them insist that the shooting was totally unprovoked and unjustified. In addition to being crass and offensive, the report was entirely fabricated.  World News Daily Report (WNDR) is a fake news site that publishes clickbait hoaxes using unrelated images to spin wild and salacious stories.   The site's disclaimer notes that WNDR's content is fictional: WNDR assumes however all responsibility for the satirical nature of its articles and for the fictional nature of their content. All characters appearing in the articles in this website — even those based on real people — are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any persons, living, dead, or undead is purely a miracle. The image used with the article depicted a "simulated burn victim" at a Navy drill, not a coal miner. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags World News Daily Report Officer Involved Shootings Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy