Was a Japanese Whaling Crew Eaten Alive by Killer Whales? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Was a Japanese Whaling Crew Eaten Alive by Killer Whales? Online reports held that a school of killer whales attacked and ate 16 crew members of a Japanese whaling boat. David Mikkelson Published Aug. 5, 2014 Claim: A school of killer whales attacked and ate 16 crew members of a Japanese whaling boat. Rating: Labeled Satire About this rating On 28 July 2014, the World News Daily Report (WNDR) web site published an article positing that a school of killer whales attacked, killed, and ate 16 crew members of a Japanese whaling boat: A Japanese whaling crew has fallen victim to a dramatic full on assault by a school of killer whales, killing no less then 16 crew members and injuring 12, has reported the Japanese Government this morning. The crew of the MV Nisshin Maru , Japan’s primary whaling vessel and the world’s only whaler factory ship, was forced to leave the deck temporarily as a gas leak was detected within the ship’s processing factory that resulted in the ship being temporarily disabled all while continuing to carry approximately 1,000 tons of oil. Soon afterwards links and excerpts referencing this item were being circulated via social media, with many of those who encountered it mistaking it for a genuine news article.  However, that article was just another spoof from World News Daily Report , a fake news web site whose stock in trade is publishing fantastically fictional stories.  The site's disclaimer page states that: World News Daily Report is a news and political satire web publication, which may or may not use real names, often in semi-real or mostly fictitious ways. All news articles contained within worldnewsdailyreport.com are fiction, and presumably fake news. Any resemblance to the truth is purely coincidental, except for all references to politicians and/or celebrities, in which case they are based on real people, but still based almost entirely in fiction. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags World News Daily Report Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy