Donald Trump Announces His Campaign Is a Joke | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Donald Trump Announces His Campaign Is a Joke A video purportedly showing the presidential candidate saying that his campaign had been an April Fool's Day prank all along was actually created for a comedy TV show. Dan Evon Published April 1, 2016 Claim: Donald Trump announced that his 2016 Presidential campaign was an April Fool's Day joke. Rating: False About this rating On 1 April 2016, a video purportedly showing Donald Trump announcing that his presidential campaign had been an April Fool's Day joke all along was shared on social media: Donald Trump announced today that the whole campaign was a complete joke and he will be pulling out of the campaign and endorsing Hillary Clinton In addition to the video, people on social media expressed some wishful thinking about Donald Trump's campaign being a possible, long-running prank: The combination of people commenting that Donald Trump's campaign was a joke, along with a video that purported to show Trump making an April Fool's Day announcement, led many to believe that Trump had actually suspended his campaign. This is not the case, however. The video was created for a late-night comedy television show , Jimmy Kimmel Live! While the above-displayed video edited out Kimmel's introduction, the original video makes it clear that the announcement was just another April Fool's Day prank: This is something you’re going to be hearing a lot about over the next several days. Donald Trump recently made a bombshell revelation that could make you question everything you know about the state of American politics. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Donald Trump April Fool's Day Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy