Joel Osteen Endorses Donald Trump | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Joel Osteen Endorses Donald Trump While Joel Osteen complimented Donald Trump during a radio interview, he did not endorse him for president. Dan Evon Published July 27, 2016 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: Televangelist Joel Osteen endorsed Donald Trump. Rating: False About this rating On 7 October 2015, televangelist Joel Osteen made an appearance on the Kilmeade And Friends radio show, during which Osteen said that he understood Trump's "make our country great again" message: I think [the message] resonates to, ‘Hey, maybe the country is not where it should be. Let’s get back to where we were.’ Like you said, Mr. Trump is an incredible communicator and brander, like Mr. Clinton said. He’s been a friend of our ministry. He’s a good man. Several months after Osteen's appearance on the Kilmeade and Friends show, his comments began to recirculate under misleading headlines which insinuated that that Osteen had officially endorsed Trump for president. For example, entertainment web site Evenin-Tea.com published a video of Osteen's comments under the title "Guess Who’s Endorsing Trump, Joel Freaking Osteen – You Done Yet? This Latest Trump Endorsement Is Gonna Rock Some Worlds." While Osteen's admiring comments fell far short of an actual endorsement, the televangelist still found it necessary to clarify his political position. In March 2016, his church released a statement : Contrary to the misinformation currently making the rounds on social media, Pastor Joel Osteen has not endorsed any candidate for President of the United States. Preacher and televangelist Joel Osteen is the pastor at Houston-based Lakewood Church, the one of the largest in the United States. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Endorsement Joel Osteen Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy