Did Hurricane Harvey Reveal Barack Obama's Secret Ammunition Stash? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Hurricane Harvey Reveal Barack Obama's Secret Ammunition Stash? A "satirical" web site fabricated a story linking the fatal storm to the former president and 2015 military exercises at the U.S.-Mexico border. Arturo Garcia Published Sept. 6, 2017 Image courtesy of Frederic Legrand - COMEO / Shutterstock.com Claim: Flooding caused by Hurricane Harvey exposed a weapons cache hidden by former President Barack Obama. Rating: False About this rating On 4 September 2017, OurLandOfTheFree.com published a story purporting to reveal evidence of a "planned coup" by former U.S. President Barack Obama that had been conveniently exposed by Hurricane Harvey: A cache of weapons long suspected to be hidden in Texas during Operation Jade Helm 15 was uncovered by the flood waters of Hurricane Harvey. The stockpile, hidden in a small town outside of Lexmar, matches numbers in the inventory reported missing during Obama’s tenure. Obama and his administration flat out refused to answer where more than 200 million rounds of ammunition went while he was commander-in-chief. The traitor always maintained that there had to be a clerical error. Now that nearly 10 percent of that ammo has been found, little question remains what happened to it. The story is a fabrication. The site says as much in a disclaimer: Ourlandofthefree.com makes no guarantee that anything you find here will be based at all in reality. All posts should be considered satirical and all images photoshopped to look like something they’re not. It’s not you, it’s me. There are other indications as to the story's nature. For one, there is no record of a town in Texas called "Lexmar", let alone any "small towns" near it. The story also includes a picture allegedly taken on 4 September 2017 in "Kirkmere, Texas": Again, there is no record of a community by that name in the state. Also, a search for the image reveals that it was taken in May 2010, just outside what has been described as a "Russian ammunition warehouse": The story also invoked the name of Operation Jade Helm 15, a 2015 United States military exercise that was the focus of several conspiracy theories before it began — but which eventually proceeded without incident. While Our Land of the Free is a "satirical" news site, other sites ran their own versions of the same story, mostly verbatim, but without a disclaimer labeling themselves as fictitious. By Arturo Garcia Arturo Garcia is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Barack Obama Jade Helm 15 Our Land Of The Free Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy