Jesus Is Not Coming Back, Vatican Says | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Jesus Is Not Coming Back, Vatican Says Reports that a cardinal announced that the Catholic Church no longer believes that Jesus will return came from a fake news web site. Dan Evon Published July 27, 2016 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: A cardinal announced that the Catholic Church no longer believes that Jesus will return. Rating: False About this rating In July 2016, the entertainment web site RealTimeNews.info published an article reporting that Cardinal Giorgio Salvadore had announced that the Vatican no longer believes that Jesus will return to the world: A SPOKESPERSON for the Vatican (Roman Catholic) has officially announced that the second coming of Jesus, the only son of the God, may not happen now after all, but urged followers to still continue with their faith, regardless of the news. Cardinal Giorgio Salvadore told WWN that this years 1,981st anniversary is to be the Vatican’s last in regards to waiting for the Lord to return to Earth. While RealTimeNews.info does not carry a readily available disclaimer on its web site, the story quoted above is a carbon copy of an article published in 2014 by Waterford Whispers News, a web site that does label itself a satire publication: Waterford Whispers News is a fabricated satirical newspaper and comedy website published by Waterford Whispers News. Waterford Whispers News uses invented names in all its stories, except in cases when public figures are being satirized. Any other use of real names is accidental and coincidental. When the story was first published, Reverend Joseph Osei-Bonsu — the President of the Ghana Catholic Bishops Conference — said that the story was a fabrication and that no Cardinal Giorgio Salvadore exists: “The publication is the fabrication of a mischievous and malicious person. The views stated in it do not come from any Cardinal in the Vatican,” he declared in a statement. He said none of the 216 Cardinals bore the name Giorgio Salvadore and explained that there was, indeed, a Cardinal Salvatore de Giorgi, an Archbishop Emeritus of Palermo. However, Cardinal de Giorgi is not a Vatican spokesperson. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Vatican Jesus Christ Catholic Church Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy