Are Facebook Pirates 'Cloning' Accounts? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Are Facebook Pirates 'Cloning' Accounts? Warning alerts social media users that Facebook 'pirates' Facebook "pirates" perpetrate scams by setting up look-alike Facebook accounts that copy other users' profiles. David Mikkelson Published Dec. 26, 2012 Claim: Facebook "pirates" perpetrate scams by setting up look-alike Facebook accounts that copy other users' profiles. Rating: Mostly False About this rating Warnings about Facebook "pirates" who copy other users' profiles began circulating widely on that social media site in December 2012 and have reappeared periodically since then: Heads-ups!! Almost every account is being cloned. Your picture and your name are used to create a new facebook account (they don't need your password to do this). They want your friends to add them to their facebook account. Your friends will think that it's you and accept your request. From that point on they can write what they want under your name. I have NO plans to open a new account. Please DO NOT accept a 2nd friend request from "me". Copy this message on your wall. WARNING!! Some hackers are now taking your profile picture and your name and creating a new FB account. They then ask your friends to add them. Your friends think it is you, so they accept. From that moment on they can say and post whatever they want under your name. Please don't accept a second friendship request from me, I have only one account. Copy this on your wall to keep others informed. New scam on Facebook ... There is now "Pirates" who copy your profile picture and asks for friendship in your name with a new account. Do not accept any requests in my name since this is my only account ... Thanks to all ... Copy this post to the wall ... Recommended to all your contacts Please be careful: some hackers have found something new. They take your profile picture and your name and create a new FB account. Then they ask your friends to add them. Your friends think it is you, so they accept. From that moment on they can say and post whatever they want under your name. Please don't accept a second friendship demand from me, I have only one account. It is true in a general sense that some scammers have engaged in Facebook cloning, a process in which the scammer creates a new Facebook account using a profile picture and similar name taken from an existing user, then sends out friend requests which appear to originate from that user. (The requests often claim the sender has just set up a new Facebook account or was locked out of his previous account.) The end purpose of such scams varies: it may be to send Facebook users links to malicious websites that propagate malware, to perpetrate phishing schemes, or to collect personal information from users that can be used for identity theft. However, contrary to the example texts reproduced above, Facebook cloning is not a "new scam," nor is there any evidence that its occurrence has increased greatly in recent days. (It also isn't a "hack," as the scam requires no special privileges nor breaking in to any Facebook accounts to accomplish.) In general, Facebook users should always be cautious with friend requests: attempt to verify their validity before accepting them, be wary of additional requests from persons you have already befriended, and take care about what information you share with friends on Facebook. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Facebook Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy