Is Cards Against Humanity Trying to Block President Trump's Border Wall? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is Cards Against Humanity Trying to Block President Trump's Border Wall? A promotion launched by the game company includes the claim that it will slow or stop the wall through the purchase of border land and a legal challenge. Kim LaCapria Published Nov. 15, 2017 Image courtesy of chrisdorney / Shutterstock.com Claim: Cards Against Humanity purchased acres of land on the U.S.-Mexico border and retained a law firm to fight President Trump's plan to construct a border wall. Rating: Unproven About this rating On 14 November 2017 Cards Against Humanity caused a stir with its annual holiday campaign, announcing a mysterious promotion on Twitter: The government is being run by a toilet. We have no choice... we are going to save America and attempt to keep our brand relevant in 2017 Join in and for $15 we’ll send you six America-saving surprises this December: https://t.co/o1BFmokO9W — CardsAgainstHumanity (@CAH) November 14, 2017 The tweet linked to the web site , "Cards Against Humanity Saves America," which claimed that the first of six "America-saving surprises" would be a map of a vacant plot of land that the company had purchased on the U.S.-Mexico border as a way to slow down or stop the construction of a border wall, one of President Donald Trump's key campaign promises: CARDS AGAINST HUMANITY STOPS THE WALL Donald Trump is a preposterous golem who is afraid of Mexicans. He is so afraid that he wants to build a twenty-billion dollar wall that everyone knows will accomplish nothing. So we’ve purchased a plot of vacant land on the border and retained a law firm specializing in eminent domain to make it as time-consuming and expensive as possible for the wall to get built. On Day 1, all Cards Against Humanity Saves America recipients will get an illustrated map of the land, a certificate of our promise to fight the wall, some new cards, and a few other surprises. In a comedic video (produced in the style of a newscast from the future), the company claimed that each person who purchased the $15 promotion would own part of the purchased land. The clip also repeated the claim that the company had contracted the services of an unnamed law firm specializing in cases involving eminent domain -- the power of the government to seize control of privately-held property if "just compensation" is offered in to the owner or owners: We contacted Cards Against Humanity for further details, but have not yet received a response. Sources Cards Against Humanity .   "Cards Against Humanity Saves America."
    Accessed 15 November 2017. Cornell Law Legal Information Institute .   "Eminent Domain."
    Accessed 15 November 2017. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Border Wall Cards Against Humanity Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy