Did a Dead Reporter Mail Her Lawyer an 'Open If Something Happens to Me' Recording of Bill Clinton? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did a Dead Reporter Mail Her Lawyer an 'Open If Something Happens to Me' Recording of Bill Clinton? Bill Clinton did not 'admit to raping and murdering a woman in Arkansas in 1987.' David Mikkelson Published May 1, 2018 Claim: A reporter who was found dead mailed her lawyer a recording “to be played if anything happens to her." Rating: False About this rating On 30 April 2018, the Daily World Update web site published an article reporting that a reporter who was found dead had mailed her lawyer a recording “to be played if anything happens to her" which would implicate Bill Clinton in her death: A reporter who was found dead in rural Idaho this afternoon reportedly mailed her lawyer a recording “to be played if anything happens to her.” Her attorney, Art Tubolls of the reputed Tubolls Dabs and Plant says what he holds is “irrefutable evidence that Bill Clinton had my client murdered.” The reporter, Sandy Batt, 31, was “hot on the trail” of a story about Clinton dating back to the late 1980s. According to her friend, Lauren Perrine, Batt found out more than she bargained for ... at the cost of her life. "She said he admitted to raping and murdering a woman in Arkansas in 1987." None of this was true: There was no mysteriously dead reporter in Idaho, nor any secret recording linking former president Bill Clinton to her death.  This story was fabricated by Daily World Update , a site that is part of a fake news network which engages in political trolling under the guise of offering "satire."  The site's disclaimer notes that "Everything on this website is fiction." The photograph of the putatively dead reporter's body that accompanied the article was an unrelated image which had previously been used in other fake news articles about the Clintons. Sources Eagleton, Flagg.   "Dead Reporter Mailed Her Lawyer an ‘Open If Something Happens to Me’ Recording of Bill Clinton." Daily World Update .   30 April 2018. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Daily World Update Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy