'Black Muslim in the White House' Virus | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check 'Black Muslim in the White House' Virus Virus warning: A computer virus called 'Black Muslim in the White House' will burn your entire hard drive. David Mikkelson Published Aug. 3, 2010 Image courtesy of Diego Cambiaso/Flickr Claim: A virus is circulating with the name "Black in the White House" (aka "Black Muslim in the White House"). Rating: False About this rating The 'Black [Muslim] in the White House' virus warning is yet another variant of the same basic computer virus hoax that has been circulating in various languages since at least 2000, with occasional changes along the way. The original form of this virus hoax was its incarnation as the " [Virtual] Card for You " hoax, then in time for the 2006 Winter Olympics someone dusted it off and reintroduced it as an "Olympic Torch" virus warning (also known as the " Invitation virus"). After the inauguration of Barack Obama in 2009, the same hoax was repackaged as a warning about a non-existent virus called "Black in the White House" (since modified to "Black Muslim in the White House"). In 2010, the same hoax was circulated yet again, this time with a tongue-in-cheek notice that virus mailings were accompanied by pictures of Gordon Brown (then the UK's Prime Minister) "actually smiling." The bottom line is that no matter what the title du jour might be, this warning is pure hoax: No such (incurable) virus like the one described in this warning exists, has been identified by McAfee, or was reported on by CNN. Additional information: A Virtual Card for You Hoax ( McAfee ) By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags ASP Article Virus Hoaxes & Realities Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy