Mike Pence Said Calls to Ban Muslims Are 'Offensive and Unconstitutional'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Mike Pence Said Calls to Ban Muslims Are 'Offensive and Unconstitutional'? In a December 2015 tweet, then-Indiana Governor Mike Pence rejected presidential candidate Donald Trump's call to ban Muslims from entering the United States. David Emery Published Jan. 28, 2017 Claim: Mike Pence tweeted that calls to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. are "offensive and unconstitutional." Rating: True About this rating On 27 January 2017, President Donald Trump signed an executive order entitled "Protection Of The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States," which barred entry to the U.S. for foreign nationals from certain countries associated with terrorism. CNN reported: The order bars all persons from certain terror-prone countries from entering the United States for 90 days and suspends the US Refugee Admissions Program for 120 days until it is reinstated "only for nationals of countries for whom" members of Trump's Cabinet deem can be properly vetted. The countries impacted are Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Yemen and Somalia, according to a White House official. All seven countries targeted by the ban are Muslim majority nations. Trump's order stipulated that Christians and adherents of other minority religions be given priority over Muslims, the New York Times reported . The measures are part of President Trump's promised "extreme vetting measures" designed to keep terrorists out of the United States: "We don't want them here," Mr. Trump said of Islamist terrorists during a signing ceremony at the Pentagon. "We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas. We only want to admit those into our country who will support our country, and love deeply our people." Human rights groups condemned the order as an instance of religious persecution. The American Civil Liberties Union labeled it a "euphemism for discriminating against Muslims." As President Trump signed the order, Vice President Mike Pence stood behind him and applauded. Hours later, a tweet purportedly sent by then-Governor of Indiana Mike Pence on 8 December 2015 was resurrected and shared online as proof he had once vehemently disagreed with Trump on the issue of banning entry to the United States on the basis of religion: Calls to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. are offensive and unconstitutional. — Governor Mike Pence (@GovPenceIN) December 8, 2015 The tweet, sent from Pence's verified Twitter account, was authentic. His comment was in response to a 7 December 2015 proposal by then-presidential candidate Donald Trump to institute a temporary ban on Muslims entering the country until government officials could "figure out what's going on." After Trump nominated Pence as his GOP running-mate in July 2016, Pence backtracked on the issue. When asked in October 2016 why he had stopped condemning the idea of a ban, Pence said he no longer needed to condemn it because Trump had supposedly abandoned the position himself. The most significant difference between the ban instituted by Trump's January 2017 executive order and the one he proposed as a candidate in 2015 is its scope. The earlier proposal called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States," while the executive order targets residents of seven specific Muslim majority nations. Sources Healy, Patrick and Barbaro, Michael.   "Donald Trump Calls for Barring Muslims from Entering U.S." The New York Times .   7 December 2015. Merica, Dan.   "Trump Signs Executive Order to Keep Out 'Radical Islamic Terrorists.'"
CNN.   28 January 2017. Rappeport, Alan.   "Mike Pence Disavows Donald Trump's Earlier Proposal Barring Muslims." The New York Times .   6 October 2016. Shear, Michael D. and Cooper, Helene.   "Trump Bars Refugees and Citizens of 7 Muslim Countries." The New York Times .   27 January 2017. DonaldJTrump.com.   "Donald J. Trump Statement on Preventing Immigration."
7 December 2015. By David Emery David Emery is a West Coast-based writer and editor with 25 years of experience fact-checking rumors, hoaxes, and contemporary legends. Article Tags Mike Pence Muslim Ban Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy