Was Tom Hanks' Father the Lead Singer of The Diamonds? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Was Tom Hanks' Father the Lead Singer of The Diamonds? We'd understand the confusion if the actor and the singer shared a surname. David Mikkelson Published Feb. 5, 2012 Image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons Claim: The father of actor Tom Hanks was the lead singer of the musical group The Diamonds. Rating: False About this rating The Diamonds were one of the most popular vocal groups of the 1950s, a quartet of Canadians best known for their hit "Little Darlin'," which reached the #2 spot on Billboard's singles chart in 1957. Tom Hanks is an American actor, producer, writer, and director best known for winning consecutive Best Actor Academy Awards (for Philadelphia in 1993 and Forrest Gump in 1994). Contrary to the rumor reproduced above, however, there is no familial connection between The Diamonds and Tom Hanks. The lead singer of The Diamonds when they recorded hits such as "Little Darlin'" was Dave Somerville , a native of Guelph, Ontario, who was born in 1933 and died in July 2015 . (Somerville left The Diamonds in 1961, although from the late 1980s onwards he performed occasionally with original members of the group.) Tom Hanks' father, Amos Mefford Hanks , was born in Glenn County, California, in 1924 and died in 1992. Amos Hanks, according to various biographies, was something between an "itinerant cook" and a "restaurant chef." None of The Diamonds, either the original group or the replacement members, bore the surname Hanks or is known to be directly related to Tom Hanks the actor. Sources Bogart, Stephen Humphrey. Bogart: In Search of My Father. New York: E P Dutton, 1995.   ISBN 0-525-93987-3. Wikipedia .   "Dave Somerville."
    Accessed 13 March 2017. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Movies Actors Tom Hanks Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy