Was a Giant Squid Carcass Found in Indonesia? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Was a Giant Squid Carcass Found in Indonesia? Photographs that purportedly show a giant squid carcass that washed up on an Indonesia beach actually show a dead whale. Dan Evon Published May 12, 2017 Claim: A photograph shows an unusually large squid carcass in Indonesia. Rating: Miscaptioned About this rating In May 2017, a photograph showing the corpse of a large creature in the water off the coast of Indonesia was shared on social media, along with the claim that it shows a giant squid: Initial news reports had trouble identifying the animal, but they did provide some information about the creature's size that should have dispelled the rumor: The species of this animal is not yet known, and local residents do not recognize it. However, the size is more than 22 meters with a width of four meters. This creature is far too large to be a squid of any type. According to the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, the giant squid has an estimated maximum length of thirteen meters, nearly ten meters shy of the animal that was found in Indonesia. The colossal squid, the precisely named world's largest squid, is also too small to be the pictured animal, as it only reaches an estimated maximum length of around fourteen meters, or 45 feet. So what is it? On 11 May 2017, Indonesian outlet Tribun News reported that it was a whale's carcass, not a squid's: "At first people thought it was squid, but after being examined it is a whale carcass because it is more similar to whales," he said. Sources Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History .   "Giant Squid"
    Retrieved 11 May 2017. Deep Sea News .   "How Big Is A Colossal Squid Really?."
    22 October 2013. Tribun News .   "Warga Sekampung Geger, Bangkai Mirip Cumi-cumi Raksasa Bertaring Terdampar di Tepi Laut."
    11 May 2017. Siswoyo, Harry.   "Bangkai Hewan Raksasa Bergading Terdampar di Pantai Seram." Viva.co.id .   10 May 2017. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Indonesia Giant Squid Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy