'British Refugees Welcome' Sign on Madrid Building | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check 'British Refugees Welcome' Sign on Madrid Building An image showing a "British Refugees Welcome" sign on the Palacio Cibeles in Spain was digitally manipulated for satirical purposes. Dan Evon Published June 24, 2016 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: A photograph shows a sign hanging from the Palacio Cibeles in Madrid, Spain, welcoming British refugees. Rating: False About this rating A photograph purportedly showing a sign reading "British Refugees Welcome" hanging from the Palacio Cibeles in Madrid, Spain started circulating on the internet on 24 June 2016, a day after Britain voted to leave the European Union. This image has been manipulated from an original photograph that was published in September 2015 by Flickr user Juan Alcor , and which showed the famous Spanish building adorned with a "Refugees Welcome" sign: The photograph was manipulated to serve as political commentary after the United Kingdom passed a polarizing referendum to leave the European Union, implying — since the vote passed by such a slender margin — that a large portion of people would want to flee the country. While Spain didn't open its doors to British "refugees" from the Brexit vote, the country did make an announcement after the UK opted out of the EU: Spain will seek joint sovereignty with Britain over Gibraltar: The peninsula on Spain's south coast, a British territory since 1713 known to its 30,000 residents as "the Rock", is a major point of contention in Anglo-Spanish relations. Spain has long claimed sovereignty over the enclave. "It's a complete change of outlook that opens up new possibilities on Gibraltar not seen for a very long time. I hope the formula of co-sovereignty - to be clear, the Spanish flag on the Rock - is much closer than before," Garcia-Margallo said. The long-term social and economic effects of Brexit's passage are not yet known.  However, it has not created a class of refugees fleeing from Britain. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Spain Brexit Britain Refugees Signs Of The Times Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy