Did Amazon Choose San Diego For Its 'HQ2'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Amazon Choose San Diego For Its 'HQ2'? A short-lived fake story about the giant tech company illustrated the dangers of sharing posts blindly. Arturo Garcia Published Nov. 6, 2017 Updated Nov. 6, 2017 Image courtesy of Jonathan Weiss/Shutterstock Claim: Amazon chose San Diego as the site for its second headquarters, a.k.a. "HQ2." Rating: False About this rating This fake report came and went more quickly than an Amazon Prime order. The 4 November 2017 post pushing the claim that the tech corporation had chosen to build a second headquarters (or "HQ2") in San Diego, California was initially published on chicagotimesnews.com, but by the time it came to our attention, it had been taken down. A cached version of the site shows little more than a headline and one line from the story: A Google search also shows the fake headline topping searches for "Amazon chooses San Diego," with no advisory for readers: Not surprisingly, a search for "Amazon San Diego" on Twitter reveals that several users blindly shared the big news, only to later realize it was bogus. It is true that the company received 238 bids from prospective host sites for its planned new campus. Amazon has said that it would create up to 50,000 jobs for HQ2. But while Amazon signed a lease for a new office in San Diego in September 2017, the final decision on where HQ2 will be located has not been announced. The San Diego Regional Economic Development Corporation confirmed to us on 6 November 2017 that it submitted a bid on behalf of the region for the facility. Sources Dastin, Jeffrey. "Amazon Receives 238 Proposals For Its Second Headquarters." Reuters. 23 October 2017. Radin, Danielle. "Amazon Signs Lease For New Office in University City." KNSD-TV. 16 September 2017. Freeman, Mike. "San Diego's Bid For Amazon HQ2: Can It Win?" San Diego Union-Tribune. 16 October 2017. Updates Updated [6 November 2017]: Added confirmation from the San Diego Regional Economic Development Corporation that the city bid for the second Amazon headquarters. By Arturo Garcia Arturo Garcia is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Amazon San Diego California Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy