Einstein Bicycles as A-Bomb Explodes? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Einstein Bicycles as A-Bomb Explodes? An altered image purports to show Albert Einstein racing away from an atomic bomb explosion on a bicycle. David Emery Published July 9, 2016 Image courtesy of Imgur.com, 2014 Claim: A photograph shows Albert Einstein riding a bike while an atomic explosion takes place in the background. Rating: False About this rating In January 2011, a black-and-white photograph began popping up on joke web sites , apparently showing Nobel Prize-winning physicist Albert Einstein pedaling a bicycle away from an atom bomb explosion in the desert. It has been meme fodder ever since. Though it has occasionally been presented as authentic, the tableau depicted in the photo is preposterous on the face of it and more likely to elicit laughter than credulity. In point of fact, it's a composite image constructed using two different photographs taken 29 years apart. The portion of the image showing Einstein on a bike was clipped (and flipped horizontally) from a photograph of the scientist taken by California Institute of Technology trustee Ben Meyer on 6 February 1933 in Santa Barbara: The background image of military and civilian observers watching a nuclear explosion in the desert was taken on 14 July 1962 — seven years after Einstein's death — at the Frenchman Flat nuclear test site in Nevada. The occasion was the so-called "Small Boy" detonation, one of a series of four tactical nuclear warhead tests conducted that year by the U.S. Department of Defense: In terms of historical accuracy, while it's true that Einstein's early theoretical work was instrumental in the conception and creation of the atomic bomb years later, Einstein himself played no practical part in that endeavor. Nor is there any public record of his having attended a nuclear weapons test. The image does resonate in an interesting way with two statements often attributed to Albert Einstein. One has never been substantiated and is generally considered apocryphal: I thought of [the theory of relativity] while riding my bicycle. The other is paraphrased from a letter written by Einstein to his son, Eduard, on 5 February 1940: Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving. Sources Isaacson, Walter. Einstein: His Life and Universe.
  New York: Simon & Schuster, 2007. ISBN 0743264738. By David Emery David Emery is a West Coast-based writer and editor with 25 years of experience fact-checking rumors, hoaxes, and contemporary legends. Article Tags People Atomic Bomb Albert Einstein Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy