Is a Maine Crematorium Offering Free Cremations? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is a Maine Crematorium Offering Free Cremations? Downeast Direct Cremations has offered the service for free to contest winners, attracting the attention of meme groups. Arturo Garcia Published March 29, 2017 Image courtesy of Shutterstock Claim: A crematorium in Maine offered its services for free to contest winners. Rating: True About this rating In late March 2017, a Maine cremation business's giveaway became fodder for online memes before the company's Facebook page was apparently taken offline, prompting questions over whether the company was legitimate to begin with. Downeast Direct Cremation has offered free cremations in giveaways since first opening in 2014. The company does exist - we spoke to the owner, Cynthia Scally on 28 March 2017; the local Chamber of Commerce also confirmed that it is active - but it apparently departed the social media platform after we contacted her. A "Nihilist Memes" group prompted our inquiry after sharing a 2015 post on the company's page celebrating Charlie Taylor winning the $975 service in a giveaway. Scally told us that pictures of previous contest winners have been shared before, with one reaching a "near-viral state." A picture of another contest winner, Lynne Snow, can be found on me.me, which allows users to find "dank memes." Snow's picture was also shared on Facebook by a user who cracked, "If this WERE a Monty Python skit - it might just sound something like this ..." Other wags online have poked fun of the company for even offering the service: The service includes picking up the deceased from their place of death and completing legal documentation associated with the process, on top of the actual cremation. The company's web site also provides a "homework" page for prospective customers. Scally said she has seen some of the comments directed toward the winners after they are spread online, adding, "They're not the greatest." We contacted her again seeking confirmation on whether the disappearance of the company's Facebook page was related to being "featured" by the meme group and are awaiting a reply. Sources Kaye, Nick. "Downeast Direct Cremation caters to growing trend in Maine." Bangor Daily News. 21 July 2014. "All About Maine : Downeast Direct Cremation." YouTube. Uploaded by Downeast Direct Creation. 3 April 2016. By Arturo Garcia Arturo Garcia is a former writer for Snopes. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy