Cam Newton Arrested for Fixing Super Bowl? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Cam Newton Arrested for Fixing Super Bowl? Fake news reports the QB of the Carolina Panthers was arrested for "fixing" a Super Bowl game and betting against his team. David Mikkelson Published Feb. 8, 2016 Claim: Carolina Panthers quarterbacl Cam Newton was arrested for "fixing" Super Bowl 50. Rating: False About this rating On 7 February 2016, the Denver Broncos upset the favored Carolina Panthers in Super Bowl 50 to claim the National Football League championship for the 2015-16 season.  After the game, dejected and sulking Panthers quarterback Cam Newton grew tired of answering media questions about what went wrong in the Panthers' 24-10 loss to the Broncos and got up and walked off the post-game press podium after about three minutes. The following day, an online rumor claimed Newton had been arrested on charges of "fixing" the Super Bowl game and thus enabling himself to collect a whopping $100 million garnered from betting on the underdog Broncos: Police have arrested Cam Newton his father, his uncle Richie and seven other people, including four panthers players, over allegations of a football betting scam in which they fixed the 2016 super bowl. It is believed that there was a pattern of irregular betting, with stakes being put on the Denver Broncos at the last minute totaling 100 Million. These were done by several different accounts owned by Newtons family and linking back to Cam. Other red flags were raised by Cam's questionable gameplay by poorly throwing several passes and making no attempt to recover a fumble. Newtons 58-year-old father, also called Big Cam, is thought to have been arrested at his home. Wayne Newton, Richie Newton and two other men were later bailed pending further enquiries. 6 family members remain in custody along with four others. There was no truth to this story, however.  It originated with the Daily Media Buzz , a fake news site known for publishing fabricated clickbait headlines and stories. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Super Bowl Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy