Iceland Mandates Mental Health Warnings on All Bibles? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Iceland Mandates Mental Health Warnings on All Bibles? A satirical article about Iceland, Bibles, and mental health was mistaken as genuine news by some readers. Dan Evon Published Nov. 2, 2017 Claim: Iceland has passed a law requiring mental health warnings to be placed on all Bibles. Rating: False About this rating On 30 October 2017, the blog "Laughing in Disbelief" published an entry reporting that Iceland had passed a law requiring that mental health warnings be placed on all Bibles: The government of this small island country voted unanimously to place warning labels on every Bible. Not only will the cover of each and every tome have a warning, but there are to be reminders placed throughout the so-called holy book to remind readers they are putting their hearts and minds at risk. "Laughing in Disbelief" is part of the Patheos network of religion-themed blogs. Although the majority of blogs in this network focus on spirituality, Patheos also has a "non-religious" section that publishes humorous content. "Laughing in Disbelief," which resides in the non-religious section of Patheos, includes a disclaimer page that explains its content is satirical in nature: Have you clicked a link to a story and you’re here? The story you are reading is satirical. The post may have links to real events that the satire is based on, but the Laughing in Disbelief article is fake. There are winks to readers in each piece besides the link(s) to this page that I humbly offer as hints that the story in question is satirical. The entry about Iceland and Bibles also featured a few obvious indications that the story was nothing more than a canard. In fact, the article quoted a fictional Icelandic Prime Minister named "Andrew Canard": “We wanted to utilize what worked best for other nations,” explained Prime Minister Andrew Canard while snacking on eel cakes. “We need to make sure our citizens are aware of the dangers implicit in reading the Bible and taking it seriously.” Iceland's real Prime Minister at the time was Bjarni Benediktsson . This is at least the second time that "Laughing in Disbelief" published an item about Iceland's supposedly having passed laws to restrict the influence of religion in that country. In June 2017, for example, the blog posted a fabricated bit about Iceland's banning Southern Baptists from entering the country. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Iceland Patheos Religion Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy