Is This a Tornado Sucking Up a Rainbow? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is This a Tornado Sucking Up a Rainbow? If so, it had better leave the gold behind. David Mikkelson Published March 10, 2015 Claim: A photograph shows a tornado sucking up a rainbow. Rating: False About this rating A photograph putatively showing a tornado sucking up the colors of an adjacent rainbow has been circulating around the Internet since at least as far back as 2012: While the image is frequently shared along with a statement declaring it to be authentic, the picture is actually a piece of digital artwork created by Corey Cowan : It is a composite of three images. Two rainbows and a tornado. The original tornado image is this, which I stretched a bit and masked. Tornadoes may be incredibly powerful, but they do not affect light in the manner depicted in this viral photograph. In 2004, storm chaser Eric Nguyen captured the way a rainbow actually appears during a tornado: While the above-referenced photograph also looks manipulated (this time it appears as if the rainbow is sucking up the tornado), the presence of the rainbow was merely a coincidence: Storm chaser Eric Nguyen photographed this budding twister in a different light, the light of a rainbow. Pictured above, a white tornado cloud descends from a dark storm cloud. The sun, peeking through a clear patch of sky to the left, illuminates some buildings in the foreground. Sunlight reflects off raindrops to form a rainbow. By coincidence, the tornado appears to end right over the rainbow. By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Natural Phenomena Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy