Did Trump Tweet That Drug Testing Will Be Mandatory for Public Benefit Recipients? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Trump Tweet That Drug Testing Will Be Mandatory for Public Benefit Recipients? A fake tweet attributed to President Trump suggested mandatory drug testing would be imposed on recipients of public assistance. Kim LaCapria Published Jan. 24, 2017 Claim: President Trump tweeted that drug testing would soon be mandatory for all recipients of government assistance. Rating: False About this rating In January 2017, a screenshot of a tweet purportedly sent by President Donald Trump (pledging "mandatory drug testing" for recipients of public assistance) circulated on social media.  The text of the suspiciously undated tweet read "Drug test will be mandatory before receiving anything the government has to offer! We have to clean up these streets!": Twitter's advanced search tool returns no results for such a tweet, and the deleted tweet archive Politwoops also has no record of President Trump's issuing such a statement via Twitter. Although President Donald Trump has tweeted about drug tests and drug testing in the past, none of those tweets mentioned a connection to qualifying for public assistance: The San Fran crash was totally the pilot's fault - may be too late for drug testing, RIDICULOUS! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2013 Given the lack of standard Twitter formatting, and the lack of any attendant news  coverage about it (despite all the attention paid to Trump's Twitter feed by the news media), it's safe to say this tweet was fabricated and does not represent any statements made by President Trump via Twitter in January 2017. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Fake Tweets Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy