Trump Retweets Fake Photograph of Black Supporters | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Trump Retweets Fake Photograph of Black Supporters Donald Trump retweeted a purported photograph of black supporters of his campaign, but the depicted people weren't Trump fans. Kim LaCapria Published June 6, 2016 Claim: Donald Trump retweeted a purported photograph of black supporters of his campaign, even though the depicted people aren't Trump fans. Rating: True About this rating On 4 June 2016, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump retweeted a tweet that included a photograph purportedly showing some black supporters of his campaign: " @Don_Vito_08 : Thank You Mr. Trump for Standing up for Our Country! #VoteTrump2016 JOIN ME ON THE #TrumpTrain https://t.co/zgopGvSEen " — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2016 One day earlier, Trump had been mocked in the media for referring to a lone black political rally attendee as "my African-American over here." Trump didn't directly state that the retweet was made in response to the controversy over his rally comment, but many social media users inferred that it was. The original tweet that Trump retweeted was subsequently deleted, but Trump's tweet remained undeleted in his Twitter timeline as of 6 June 2016. Screen captures of the original retweet depicted a photograph that suggested the individuals pictured therein were Trump supporters: Not long after Trump's retweet appeared online, other users questioned the assertion that the black people in the photograph were indeed supporters of his campaign. In under half an hour, fellow Twitterers pointed out that the image in the retweet had originated with a news article unrelated to Trump or the presidential election: Seriously shameful: Trump's retweeted photo of "supporters" was lifted from @WCPO https://t.co/xXH8RZS8WT https://t.co/Vun9QDp9NZ — Mark Czerniec (@MarkCzerniec) June 4, 2016 BuzzFeed reported that the image was among the first results returned in a Google search for "black family," and that the photograph was captured at the Midwest Black Family Reunion of August 2015. They identified the people pictured in the photograph as the Perry family (and friends), and quoted Eddie Perry's comments on the Trump controversy: [A] friend texted [Eddie] a screenshot of Trump’s tweet. “When I saw it, I immediately knew it was political propaganda,” he said. “Why use it without asking for someone’s permission?” he asked. “Why use our image without asking?” The other people in the picture are friends of the family, Perry said ... Eddie Perry said the picture of his family that Trump shared was “misleading” and “taken out of context.” “I’m not saying there aren’t black families who endorse Trump,” he said, “however, this black family didn’t endorse anyone.” Sources Mack, David.   "We Spoke to the Family in This Trump Tweet and They’re Not Happy." BuzzFeed .   4 June 2016. Smith, Candace.   "Donald Trump Calls Out to 'My African-American' During Rally." ABCNews.com .   3 June 2016. WCPO-TV [Cincinnati] .   "Midwest Black Family Reunion at Sawyer Point."
    16 August 2015. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Donald Trump Unrelated Image Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy