Maxine Waters Has Shown Up to Only a Tenth of Congressional Meetings for 35 Years? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Maxine Waters Has Shown Up to Only a Tenth of Congressional Meetings for 35 Years? A self-debunking Reddit claim that Maxine Waters missed 90 percent of "Congressional meetings" was repeated by a blog as a credible statistic. Kim LaCapria Published June 9, 2017 Image courtesy of Joseph Sohm / Shutterstock.com Claim: Maxine Waters attended only ten percent of Congressional meetings in more than three decades holding office. Rating: False About this rating On 7 June 2017, TeddyStick.com published an article suggesting Rep. Maxine Waters was present for only ten percent of Congressional activity in a 35-year period: Maxine Waters (D-CA) is one of the most unpleasant people to ever hold be a public servant. She is always, angry, something that she wears as a badge of honor. She has pushed the lie about President Trump having Russian connections and has even had to admit that no facts exists to condemn the White House for. Now the demented Democrat is looking even more foolish since an observant Reddit user known as 1tch has taken the time to gather the facts together showing that “Over Her 35 Years In Congress Maxine Waters Has Missed 90% Of Congressional Meetings.” The article linked to its "source," which was nothing more than a thread on an online web forum . However, in that very thread, people disputed the claim and asked for a source that proved Maxine Waters had been absent for 90 percent of Congressional activities. One person linked to Waters' GovTrack.com 2016 report card, instructing others to check via the "Missed Votes" section: According to GovTrack.com's 2016 Report Card for Rep. Maxine Waters, she missed 7.6 percent of votes, or 100 out of of 1,311 total votes during the 114th Congress. The claim Waters skipped out on 90 percent of "Congressional meetings" appears to have been entirely fabricated. Sources Di Gangi, Sam.   "Democrat Maxine Waters Has Shown Up To Only 10% Of Congressional Meetings For 35 Years." Teddy Stick .   7 June 2017. GovTrack.com .   "Rep. Maxine Waters’s 2016 Report Card."
    Accessed 9 June 2017. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Reddit R/the_donald Maxine Waters Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy