Donald Trump 'Portuguese People' Quote | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Donald Trump 'Portuguese People' Quote A fake quote from Donald Trump about Portuguese people was started by a Facebook "prank" web site. Dan Evon Published May 17, 2016 Image courtesy of Instagram Claim: Donald Trump said that "Portuguese people are the same as Spanish, but with worse wine." Rating: False About this rating A quote supposedly from Donald Trump that Portuguese people are the "same as Spanish but with worse wine" was widely circulated on Facebook in early 2016: The above-displayed Facebook post redirected users to the "prank" web site ShareOnFB.com where readers were briefly presented with a fake news article: The candidate makes another shocking comment, this time insulting the population of the european country of Portugal, known for it's.... The above-quoted article was only available for a few seconds before the web site refreshed and informed people that they had been pranked: The web site ShareOnFB.com allows users to create "pranks" that they can share with their friends on Facebook. The "frequently asked questions" section explained how the site works: ShareOnFb is a site where you can create prank stories and share them on social media sites such as Facebook or Twitter... I wanna read the whole story but it faded out for me! The fake filler story from our pranks is an excerpt from our favorite short story call "The Last Question" by Issac Asimov, we highly recommend you check it out. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Wine Spain Portugal Fake Quotes Donald Trump Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy