Dallas Shooter Not Identified as Neo-Nazi Jeffrey Harris | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Dallas Shooter Not Identified as Neo-Nazi Jeffrey Harris A troll Twitter account started a false rumor that a neo-Nazi named Jeffrey Harris was responsible for the protest shooting of police in Dallas. Dan Evon Published July 7, 2016 Image courtesy of Dallas PD Facebook Claim: Neo-Nazi Jeffrey Harris was identified as the man who shot and killed several police officers at a protest in Dallas. Rating: False About this rating Several police officers were shot and killed at the end of a protest against police violence in Dallas on 7 July 2016. As chaos unfolded on the streets and as the media attempted to get a grasp on the situation, a troll Twitter account posted a message claiming that the shooter had been identified as Neo-Nazi Jeffrey Harris. JUST IN: #Dallas shooter identitified as white neo-Nazi Jeffrey Harris. Linked to KKK, American Nazi Party. This message,  posted by the "Alt Right Fanfiction" Twitter account, is completely false.  The gunman in the Dallas protest shootings has been identified as Micah Xavier Johnson: Dallas police identified a North Texas man as a gunman responsible for shootings at Dallas protests that left five police officers dead and seven more injured. Micah Xavier Johnson, of Mesquite, is one of four people police said were responsible for ambushing police officers at a peaceful protest against nation-wide officer-involved shootings in Dallas. Police said officers cornered Johnson and negotiated with him for hours before talks broke down. Dallas Police Chief David Brown said Johnson told officers he was upset about recent shootings involving police and "wanted to kill white people. Especially white officers." Moreover, the man pictured above is not a neo-Nazi named Jeffrey Harris. The photograph actually shows Michael Arthur Lane, who was arrested for a parole violation in Florida in October 2015. A similar " hoax " was pulled after the death of Alton Sterling when a photograph of a Trump supporter circulated along with the claim that the man pictured was the officer responsible for Sterling's death. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags BLM Crime Dallas Black Lives Matter Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy