United Airlines to Begin Charging for Use of Overhead Storage? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check United Airlines to Begin Charging for Use of Overhead Storage? A number of articles inaccurately reported that United Airlines would begin charging passengers for the use of overhead bins on flights. Kim LaCapria Published Dec. 7, 2016 Image courtesy of Everything I Do / ShutterStock Claim: United Airlines will begin charging for overhead bin space. Rating: Mostly False About this rating What's True United Airlines introduced a fare class called "Basic Economy," which permits one personal item, but restricts an additional carry-on bag. What's False No portion of the fare's terms restricts the use of overhead bins; the luggage restriction applies only to a small class of travelers opting in to the fare. On 6 December 2016, articles appeared reporting that the days of free overhead bins on United Airlines are over, in yet another cost-cutting measure for the company: Gone are the days of the free sandwiches, the complimentary pillows, the headphones that didn’t cost $5. The in-flight comforts that were once a given are now nothing more than a nostalgic reminder of decades past. Out went the free checked bag, in came the fees for those few extra inches of leg room. Want to make sure you sit next to your children on a flight? On some airlines, there’s a fee for that. Now, on United Airlines, you won’t necessarily get the use of an overhead bin without paying more money. The overhead bin: “one of the last sacred conveniences of air travel,” as an angry Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) put it Sunday as he denounced the move. Although both articles noted in the body text that the airline might charge a fee, or that the claim was part of a new ticket option, attention-grabbing headlines were all that many people spotted. Rumors quickly kicked up suggesting that United Airlines was in the process of implementing a specific "overhead bin" fee applicable to all passengers: United Airlines will begin charging to use overhead bins in 2017 https://t.co/6eI1UMof4l — Denver Post Breaking (@DenverPostBrk) December 6, 2016 Representatives on social media explained that the claims were inaccurate: @firemanemt4evr We will not be charging for overhead bin space. Basic Economy is a lower-priced option that only allows a personal item.^CB — United (@united) December 7, 2016 The outcry appeared to stem from the introduction of a new fare class called " Basic Economy ," an optional form of ticketing with some restrictions: While Basic Economy fares have some important, additional restrictions compared to standard Economy fares, customers will enjoy the same United Economy® cabin experience and services, including dining options, Wi-Fi and inflight entertainment. However, the following differences do apply: • Automated seat assignments will be given at check-in, and passengers acknowledge at the point of a multi-seat purchase that seating together is not guaranteed. • Carry-on bags are limited to one personal item, unless the customer is a MileagePlus® Premier® member, primary cardmember of a qualifying MileagePlus credit card, or Star AllianceTM Gold member. • There will be no voluntary ticket changes except as stated in the United 24-hour flexible booking policy. • MileagePlus program members will earn redeemable award miles; however they will not earn Premier qualifying credit (miles, segments, or dollars), no lifetime miles, and no contribution to four segment minimum. • Customers will not be eligible for Economy Plus® or premium cabin upgrades. • Customers will board in the last boarding group (currently Group 5) unless a MileagePlus Premier member, primary cardmember of a qualifying MileagePlus credit card, or Star Alliance Gold member. The restrictions imposed in the optional new class of fare pared the traditional "carry on and a personal item" down to one personal item. However, no restriction was imposed on placing that item in the overhead bin.  United noted that the fare is one flyers can select, but travelers still have the option of choosing a fare with additional baggage included: @firemanemt4evr You're not required to purchase a Basic Economy fare. If you want more luggage, this fare might not be for you. ^NJ — United (@united) December 7, 2016 We contacted United via Twitter and e-mail, but have not yet received a response. Sources Keenan, Bretton.   "United Airlines Will Charge Extra Fee For Use Of Overhead Bins." WMAR .   5 December 2016. Schmidt, Samantha.   "No More Free Overhead Bin On United: Is An Extra Fee For Oxygen Next?" Washington Post .   6 December 2016. United Airlines: Travel information; Inflight services .   "Basic Economy."
      Accessed 7 December 2016. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Travel Misleading United Airlines Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy