Did Malia Obama Say White People Will Be 'Blended Out'? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Malia Obama Say White People Will Be 'Blended Out'? The former first daughter did not posit a huge demographic shift occurring in the space of a mere ten years. David Mikkelson Published April 8, 2018 Image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons Claim: Former first daughter Malia Obama said white people will be 'blended out' of the population by the time she turns 30. Rating: False About this rating On 6 April 2018, the Facebook page of the America's Last Line of Defense web site posted an image of former first daughter Malia Obama, superimposed with text quoting her as stating that "White people are so 1960's. Sometimes the only thing that keeps me going is the fact that they will be blended out by the time I am 30. Imagine a world without white people": There is, of course, no record or report anywhere other than this single Facebook post of Malia Obama's having said such a thing.  And it would be preposterous for Malia Obama (or anyone else) to suggest that such a huge demographic shift will take place in the space of only ten years (i.e., by the time Malia turns 30 in the year 2028). Nothing about this meme should be taken seriously anyway, as America's Last Line of Defense is a well known fake news site, and the "More Info" section of their Facebook page states that "Nothing on this page is real. It is a collection of the satirical whimsies of liberal trolls masquerading as conservatives." By David Mikkelson David Mikkelson founded the site now known as snopes.com back in 1994. Article Tags Malia Obama America's Last Line Of Defense Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy