Baby Moose Holds Rainbow Flag | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Baby Moose Holds Rainbow Flag A photograph purportedly showing a baby moose holding a gay pride flag is a digital creation. Dan Evon Published June 20, 2016 Image courtesy of Wikipedia Claim: A photograph shows a baby moose holding a rainbow flag. Rating: False About this rating In June 2016, a photograph purportedly showing a baby moose carrying a rainbow (i.e., gay pride) flag began circulating on social media.  However, the image was digitally altered; the young moose in the original was not carrying a flag. The original picture was posted to the Reddit on 14 June 2016, a day before the rainbow flag version began circulating, along with the caption "A baby moose I saw in town today." Reddit user "FlamingWarPig" provided additional information about the photograph's origins in the comments section: Before it got close I thought it was a huge weird a** dog. It's the smallest moose I've ever seen. This is actually dead center of Anchorage. There's a huge apartment complex just over the rise and about a 500 home subdivision behind me. The angle just makes it look more remote than it is. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Moose Animals Rainbow Flag Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy