Did Rachel Maddow Tweet That Donald Trump Needs to be 'Taken Out?' | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Did Rachel Maddow Tweet That Donald Trump Needs to be 'Taken Out?' An image purportedly showing a threatening tweet from MSNBC commentator Rachel Maddow is fake. Dan Evon Published Jan. 25, 2017 Claim: Rachel Maddow tweeted that Donald Trump needs to be "taken out" before he destroys America. Rating: False About this rating Shortly after Donald Trump's inauguration on 20 January 2017, an image purportedly showing a tweet from Rachel Maddow in which the MSNBC commentator supposedly said that the Trump needs to be "taken out" before he ruins America was circulated on social media: This image does not depict a real tweet issued by Maddow, however. The message does not appear on Maddow's Twitter timeline, and we found no record of its having being retweeted or deleted, nor any source redirecting to the original tweet's URL. Furthermore, the time stamp on the image does not match the format regularly employed by Twitter, which uses a dash instead of a comma and places the time before the date. Twitter's real time stamp can be seen on a genuine tweet from Rachel Maddow in which she denied sending out the above-displayed message: By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Donald Trump Rachel Maddow Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy