Is This Magic Johnson's Celebrity Crew Arriving at NBA Playoffs? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is This Magic Johnson's Celebrity Crew Arriving at NBA Playoffs? A photograph showing a star-studded group arriving at the NBA playoffs is a composite of several photographs. Dan Evon Published Feb. 19, 2017 Claim: A photograph showing Magic Johnson with Jack Nicholson, Michael Jackson, Madonna, and several other celebrities walking into the NBA Playoffs. Rating: False About this rating On 17 February 2017, an image purportedly showing Magic Johnson and a crew of celebrities (including actors Jack Nicholson, singers Michael Jackson, Madonna, and Prince, boxer Mike Tyson, and comedian Eddie Murphy) arriving at the NBA Playoffs was shared on Instagram by musician Snoop Dogg: However, this image does not show Magic Johnson and a celebrity crew taking in basketball playoffs; it's actually a composite of several different photographs. The picture of Magic Johnson was taken by photographer Andrew D. Bernstein and shows the NBA star strolling about Los Angeles in 1988 . The picture of Jack Nicholson was taken at the premiere of the movie The Crossing Guard in 1995 . The pictures of Michael Jackson and Madonna were taken at the Oscars in 1991 : This picture was created for an article published by Bleacher Report Magazine about a proposed one-on-one match between NBA legends Magic Johnson and Michael Jordan. Although this match never happened, one could imagine that Johnson would have walked into Caesar's Palace with a similar crew at his side: Thee made-for-TV court at Caesars Palace could have been empty except for one basketball and two of the game's most illustrious players ever. They would've been free of teammates, facing each other head-on in The King of the Court, to finally answer a question that remained unanswered for so long: Who's better—Michael Jordan or Magic Johnson? The game was to consist of two halves—one-on-one, 15 minutes each—in a heavyweight matchup: a pay-per-view special, maybe on HBO, but certainly not NBC, because this wasn't going to be some regular Sunday afternoon NBA game. This was meant to be a stunt of the highest order, under the bright lights of Las Vegas, the winner set to take home $1 million, with many, many more millions at stake. [...] You'd still be talking about the original King of the Court right now if the TV executives had their way, because it could have been the pilot of an annual series: Duncan vs. Garnett, Kobe vs. LeBron, Westbrook vs. Curry, you name it. Instead, Jordan vs. Magic remains lost to memory of what may be the greatest basketball game never played. Sources 14 February 2017.   "The Greatgest Game Never Played." Bleacher Report Magazine .   Abrams, Jonathan. By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy