Is This a 'Lava Moon' Melting into a Waterfall? | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Is This a 'Lava Moon' Melting into a Waterfall? A photograph of the moon and a waterfall seemingly align just right to create a "lava moon" melting into the water. Dan Evon Published Oct. 5, 2018 Claim: A photograph shows a 'lava moon' melting into a waterfall. Rating: False About this rating An picture purportedly showing the moon "melting" into a waterfall frequently draws "oohs and ahhs" as it gets passed around on social media: This is a full moon descending on Angel Falls, on the south side of Yosemite, just west of Sentinel Rock. For a few days each year, it appears as though the the moon is draining through the waterfall. This image, which is often shared under the title " Lava Moon ," does not depict a genuine real-world scene. This image is a composite of at least two different photographs created by digital artist Risvan and shared via Instagram in July 2017 under the title "La Luna." The picture's caption explained that the image was created by combining a photograph of Horsetail Fall (on the eastern side of El Capitan in Yosemite Valley) by Instagram user @Markian.b and a depiction of the moon from NASA . Here's a look at the two original photographs that were used to create the image-composite. (The original waterfall and moon photographs have been rotated in order to better match the composite): We're not sure where the person (who must be 20 feet tall) standing on the cliff came from, but our guess is that this is an image of Risvan, as we've come across other digital artists who have inserted themselves into their creations. If the digital edits in this image still aren't obviously apparent, Risvan also shared an animated image of this ethereal (but unrealistic) scene: By Dan Evon Dan Evon is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Natural Phenomena Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy