Hunter Nearly Killed by Brutal Sexual Assault From Moose | Snopes.com Become a Member Search My Profile Logout Submit a Rumor Latest Trending News & Politics Entertainment Fact Checks Quiz Sections Latest Trending Fact Checks News Collections More Contact Us Submit a Rumor Archives Quiz FactBot Newsletters About Us Categories News & Politics Entertainment Science & Technology Lifestyle Free accounts support our journalism Become a Member Login My Profile Logout Fact Check Hunter Nearly Killed by Brutal Sexual Assault From Moose A story that a hunter nearly died after a massive moose knocked him down and tried to have sex with him is, unsurprisingly, a hoax. Kim LaCapria Published Nov. 16, 2016 Claim: A hunter from Michigan was nearly killed by a sexually voracious moose. Rating: False About this rating On 7 November 2016, the web site World News Daily Report published an article reporting that a Michigan hunter named Jeremy Larsen was nearly killed by an enormous amorous moose in Ontario: A man from Michigan is in a critical condition after suffering a savage attack from a large moose, while hunting in Canada. Jeremy Larsen was hunting with his brother and his nephew near Dog Lake, in Ontario, when he accidentally spilled an entire jar of moose urine on himself. He decided to leave the group and head back to their cabin, three miles away, to change his clothes. He had about a mile left to walk when he was attacked by a male moose, weight around 1200 lbs. Mr Larsen tried to use his weapon to defend himself, but he was rapidly knocked out after receiving many kicks from the moose’s front hooves. While the poor man was lying on his knees, defenseless, the powerful animal began rubbing his massive genitals all over him, mimicking sexual intercourse. The claim sounded completely implausible, which is fitting because WNDR is solely a purveyor of fake news items. WNDR swipes random images from the internet to illustrate their clickbait fabrications, and the sensational material inevitably generates traffic on social media. The image of a man on a gurney that appeared with the moose claim was taken from a completely unrelated story about a fatal accident involving an arborist , and the photograph of "John Larsen" is in fact a man named Mark Kenyon. By Kim LaCapria Kim LaCapria is a former writer for Snopes. Article Tags Moose Canada Hunting World News Daily Report Recommendations Featured Local Savings Company About Us FAQs Contact Us Submit a Topic Navigate Home Search Archive Newsletters Random Sections Latest Top Fact Checks News Account Join Login Game FactBot Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter © 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc. This material may not be reproduced without permission. Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com Terms of Use Privacy Policy DMCA Policy