Fact check: has the SNP overseen a rise in the education attainment gap? Login Join us Donate About us Ferret Fact Service Help and support Inside the Ferret Blog Recruitment Transparency Privacy Audio and Podcasts Contact Shop Training Training events Subscribe Donate Latest Can a Norwegian seafood giant allay locals’ fears over a Highland fish farm? Explainer: Scottish fish farming Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Our editorial team Alastair Brian Billy Briggs Angela Catlin Paul Dobson Rob Edwards Karin Goodwin Jamie Mann Petra Matijevic Ally Tibbitt Trending Millions of gamebirds imported during record bird flu outbreak Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Baillie Gifford investment sparks AI weapons debate Weekly email The Latest Can a Norwegian seafood giant allay locals’ fears over a Highland fish farm? Explainer: Scottish fish farming Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scottish Government Featured Friends of the Earth Scotland UK Government Freedom of Information Nicola Sturgeon Covid-19 Scottish Parliament Police Scotland SEPA Mark Ruskell Home Office Fish farming Ross Greer Edinburgh Glasgow City Council Ministry of Defence Richard Dixon Glasgow Campaign Against Arms Trade Has the SNP overseen an increase in the education attainment gap? by Ferret Journalists May 28, 2017 Education has once again been in the spotlight this week, and has often led the political exchanges in Scotland. The SNP’s record was highlighted during the BBC Scottish leaders’ debate on May 21 . This time it was Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale who criticised the First Minister for Scotland’s education failings, saying that the SNP had presided over an increase in the attainment gap between richer and poorer pupils. The claim has been assessed by Ferret Fact Service, and we found it to be half true. Evidence The education attainment gap is the name given to the varying levels of academic success between people from different socio-economic backgrounds. Education Scotland gave a definition of the term in 2016 as part of a Scottish Government initiative to close the attainment gap. It read: “Many children and young people living in our most deprived communities do significantly worse at all levels of the education system than those from our least deprived communities. This is often referred to as the ‘attainment gap’.” Educational attainment has traditionally been lower in those from poorer backgrounds, and the size of the gap in achievement between poorer and richer pupils is often cited as an indicator of a country’s inequality. In Scotland, such a gap has been seen in various studies, with evidence suggesting those from more deprived backgrounds do less well in education. There are a number of ways to measure levels of attainment in the classroom, but no clear method to define the attainment gap. One often-cited survey is the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), which shows the level of attainment of 15-year-olds in reading, science and mathematics once every three years . The latest findings are from 2015, and show a slight narrowing since 2009 in the education attainment gap in science, but the gap has remained steady since 2012. In mathematics the study found a “sustained reduction in the gap”. PISA does not use the same measure of deprivation as Scotland, where it is commonly measured by area. A report from the Sutton Trust think tank using the PISA figures found Scottish pupils were scoring below average compared to other countries in the survey. The Scottish Survey on Literacy and Numeracy (SSLN) is also used as a measure for deprivation and attainment . Since 2012, there has not been a significant change in the gap between the richest and poorest students in reading or writing at P4, P7 or S2. Numeracy is measured in different years to literacy by the SSLN. There has been a significant increase in the attainment gap for P4 pupils since 2011. Overall, SSLN statistics show that for the last five years at least, a significant attainment gap has endured and general attainment has decreased in many areas, but there does not seem to be strong evidence the gap has increased. There is more evidence for such a gap when looking at the Achievement of Curriculum for Excellence (CfE) Levels, which measures poverty as the bottom 20 per cent according to the Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation (SIMD). This shows an increasing gap between the richest and poorest as they move through school. However, there is some evidence to suggest in higher and further education Scots from deprived backgrounds are in fact doing better than when the SNP got into power, but remain much less likely reach university . The inconsistency of the data means it is extremely difficult to say with any certainty if the overall attainment gap is growing, shrinking or staying the same. So while Kezia Dugdale can point to some statistics which back up her claim, the SNP and First Minister can reference other findings which suggest otherwise. Ferret Fact Service verdict: Half True Kezia Dugdale is partially correct to say that the attainment gap between most and least deprived pupils in Scotland has increased on some measures. However there is not a consistent indicator available, so it is not possible to accurately say whether Scotland’s overall gap is increasing or otherwise. Ferret Fact Service (FFS) is a non-partisan fact checker, working to the International Fact-Checking Network fact-checkers’ code of principles. All the sources used in our checks are publicly available and the FFS fact-checking methodology can be viewed here . Any questions or want to get involved? Email us at factcheck@theferret.scot or join our community forum . In response to an FFS evidence request, Scottish Labour provided reference to a Sutton Trust report, evidence from UCAS and recent CfE summary statistics. https://www.sharethefacts.co/share/aa8ccf12-611e-4a45-9014-5a69919110b3 Photo thanks to bitjungle.com , CC BY-SA 2.0 This fact check was also published in the Sunday Herald on 28 May, 2017. More like this Does Scotland have the best A&E waiting times in the UK? Do ‘mature democracies’ deny 16-year-olds the right to vote? Is the SNP planning to “cut back” bus pass eligibility? Does the ‘rape clause’ only require victims to tick a box to receive exemption? Did the SNP government end hospital parking charges? Does Scotland attract only four per cent of the UK’s immigrants? Share Tweet Subscribe attainment gap Education kezia dugdale Nicola Sturgeon schools Scottish Government Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ View Comments (0) About us Contact Pitch us a story Privacy Trouble logging in? Complaints The Ferret is published by The Ferret Media Ltd, Registered Society, RS0040088. Manage cookie consent Find us on Mastodon Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join our co-operative now to get unlimited access. See other membership options Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Join now (£5 per month) You can join using Direct Debit, payment card or Paypal. Cancel at any time. If you are on a low-income you may be eligible for a free sponsored membership. Having trouble logging in? Try here. Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join now Hi! You can login using the form below. Not registered yet? Join now Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Having trouble logging in? Try here. Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Subscribe Privacy notice We use cookies on our website that help us remember your preferences and provide the best multi-media service we possibly can. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to allow all cookies. However you can adjust your Cookie Settings to disable non-essential cookies. Cookie settings ACCEPT Manage cookie consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of the website. We also use some non-necessary cookies that help us analyse and understand how you use this website and optimise your experience when we use third party services. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies, although you should be aware that opting-out may increase the possibility that some services may not work or display optimally. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non Necessary non-necessary Any cookies that may not vital for our website to function. By accepting this type of cookies you agree to let us record more information about you and your use of our website. Save & Accept Powered by