Fact check: Claim on Glasgow's drug death rate is Mostly True Login Join us Donate About us Ferret Fact Service Help and support Inside the Ferret Blog Recruitment Transparency Privacy Audio and Podcasts Contact Shop Training Training events Subscribe Donate Latest Can a Norwegian seafood giant allay locals’ fears over a Highland fish farm? Explainer: Scottish fish farming Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Our editorial team Alastair Brian Billy Briggs Angela Catlin Paul Dobson Rob Edwards Karin Goodwin Jamie Mann Petra Matijevic Ally Tibbitt Trending Millions of gamebirds imported during record bird flu outbreak Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Baillie Gifford investment sparks AI weapons debate Weekly email The Latest Can a Norwegian seafood giant allay locals’ fears over a Highland fish farm? Explainer: Scottish fish farming Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scottish Government Featured Friends of the Earth Scotland UK Government Freedom of Information Nicola Sturgeon Covid-19 Scottish Parliament Police Scotland SEPA Mark Ruskell Home Office Fish farming Ross Greer Edinburgh Glasgow City Council Ministry of Defence Richard Dixon Glasgow Campaign Against Arms Trade Claim that Glasgow drug death rate is over 1000% higher than EU is Mostly True by Ferret Journalists May 24, 2018 Scotland’s illegal drug culture is in the spotlight after a leading Scottish government adviser said people should not be put in jail for personal drug use . Scotland’s political parties have different policies on drug criminalisation, with the Conservatives arguing that a “ soft touch ” approach, without a strong deterrent, would lead to more drug use among young people. Labour MP Paul Sweeney claimed that drug addiction should be treated as a matter of public health rather than a criminal matter and claimed that in Glasgow drug-related deaths had reached “epidemic levels”. Ferret Fact Service looked at this claim and found it to be Mostly True . Evidence Sweeney’s claim is based on a campaign by drugs reform charity, Release . The Glasgow MP also made a similar claim at Westminster in January , saying: “Per 1 million people, there are 283 drug-related deaths in Glasgow, but the average across the EU is just 20. That means that Glasgow’s drug death rate is an appalling 1315 per cent higher than the EU average”. Statistics on drug-related deaths are released by National Records of Scotland (NRS). The latest available figures are for 2016. A total of 867 drug-related deaths were registered across Scotland. The number of drug-related deaths in the Glasgow City Council area was 170. Sweeney’s claim is based on drug deaths per one million population. This requires a calculation based on the current population of the Glasgow City Council area, which was 615,070 in 2016. According to Sweeney’s comments at Westminster, this equates to 283. However, this figure appears to come from combining the 2016 drug death figures with Glasgow’s 2014 population, which is the available figure in the National Records of Scotland statistics. When the 2016 population is used, the figure per one million comes to 276.4. The European Union reports drug-related deaths in its annual European Drugs Report . The latest figures show an overall rate of 21.3. This is combined from figures across the EU which come from different years, mostly 2015 and 2014 (including the UK figure). This means that Glasgow’s rate is 1197.7 per cent higher than the European Union when the 2016 figures are used. When comparable 2014 figures are used, Glasgow’s rate is 190.1 per one million. For 2015, the figure is 258.9. This shows a significant fluctuation in the per million rate by year, partly due to the comparatively small population size of Glasgow. However, comparing such figures should be done with caution. Reporting and classification for drug-induced deaths is different in different countries. The European Drugs Report notes variations in “availability and nature of post-mortem investigations and the full use of this information for death certification and coding”. The National Records for Scotland report states that “the figures for some countries may not be truly comparable with those for Scotland” and that better identification and recording of drug-related deaths “may be a reason for the drug-death rate appearing to be higher in the UK (and, hence, Scotland) than in several other countries.” Ferret Fact Service: Mostly True Paul Sweeney’s claim that Glasgow has a drug death rate that is over 1000 per cent higher than the EU average is broadly accurate. However, the statistics used should be treated with caution as the data is not directly comparable, and it appears that the 1315 per cent rate suggested by Sweeney in Westminster is slightly higher than the actual figure. Ferret Fact Service (FFS) is a non-partisan fact checker, working to the International Fact-Checking Network fact-checkers’ code of principles. All the sources used in our checks are publicly available and the FFS fact-checking methodology can be viewed here . Want to suggest a fact check? Email us at factcheck@theferret.scot or join our community forum . More like this Claim youth unemployment lower in Scotland than UK is True Claim that 30 per cent of children in the UK are born into poverty is True Claim that Scotland had higher rate of race-related murders is Mostly True Share Tweet Subscribe drug abuse Drug deaths drug related death Glasgow mostly true Paul Sweeney Scottish Parliament Westminster Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ View Comments (0) About us Contact Pitch us a story Privacy Trouble logging in? Complaints The Ferret is published by The Ferret Media Ltd, Registered Society, RS0040088. Manage cookie consent Find us on Mastodon Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join our co-operative now to get unlimited access. See other membership options Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Join now (£5 per month) You can join using Direct Debit, payment card or Paypal. Cancel at any time. If you are on a low-income you may be eligible for a free sponsored membership. Having trouble logging in? Try here. Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join now Hi! You can login using the form below. Not registered yet? Join now Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Having trouble logging in? Try here. Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Subscribe Privacy notice We use cookies on our website that help us remember your preferences and provide the best multi-media service we possibly can. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to allow all cookies. However you can adjust your Cookie Settings to disable non-essential cookies. Cookie settings ACCEPT Manage cookie consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of the website. We also use some non-necessary cookies that help us analyse and understand how you use this website and optimise your experience when we use third party services. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies, although you should be aware that opting-out may increase the possibility that some services may not work or display optimally. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non Necessary non-necessary Any cookies that may not vital for our website to function. By accepting this type of cookies you agree to let us record more information about you and your use of our website. Save & Accept Powered by