Fact check: Claim Richard Leonard supported Brexit vote is False Login Join us Donate About us Ferret Fact Service Help and support Inside the Ferret Blog Recruitment Transparency Privacy Audio and Podcasts Contact Shop Training Training events Subscribe Donate Latest Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scotland’s Seas in Danger – part three Our editorial team Alastair Brian Billy Briggs Angela Catlin Paul Dobson Rob Edwards Karin Goodwin Jamie Mann Petra Matijevic Ally Tibbitt Trending Millions of gamebirds imported during record bird flu outbreak Baillie Gifford investment sparks AI weapons debate Rare capercaillie under threat from gamebirds Weekly email The Latest Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scotland’s Seas in Danger – part three Fish farming companies under fire for information breaches Scottish Government Featured Friends of the Earth Scotland UK Government Freedom of Information Nicola Sturgeon Covid-19 Scottish Parliament Police Scotland SEPA Mark Ruskell Home Office Fish farming Ross Greer Edinburgh Glasgow City Council Ministry of Defence Richard Dixon Glasgow Campaign Against Arms Trade Claim Richard Leonard supported the Leave campaign in Brexit vote is False by Ferret Journalists October 10, 2018 Brexit and a second independence referendum have been predictable talking points at the SNP party conference. The party’s deputy leader Keith Brown used his speech on Monday 9 October to criticise the position of Scottish Labour on both issues, after Labour promised to block a second independence referendum if elected. He suggested that Labour leader Richard Leonard had backed the Leave campaign in the EU referendum. This was denied by Labour , who called the claim a “blatant falsehood”. Ferret Fact Service looked at the claim that Richard Leonard supported the Leave campaign in the EU referendum and found it to be False . Evidence The official position of the Labour Party, both nationally and in Scotland, was to support the UK remaining in the European Union . Senior figures from the party, including leader Jeremy Corbyn, campaigned for a Remain vote, but some polling showed that members of the public were confused about Labour’s position. A poll by YouGov for The Times found that 45 per cent of voters were unclear which side Labour was supporting. Keith Brown’s claim was that Richard Leonard “supported” the Leave Campaign. While we cannot say for certain which way the Labour leader voted, we can check whether he publicly supported and campaigned for the Leave campaign. Before the referendum in June 2016, the Scottish Parliament held a debate on Britain’s continued membership of the European Union. The motion was that “Parliament supports Scotland and the rest of the UK remaining part of the EU.” While this debate held no legislative influence, it was a chance for MSPs to explicitly set out their position on Brexit. The motion passed 106 to 8 , with three abstentions. Richard Leonard did not speak in the debate but backed the motion. He also supported a vote recognising the importance of EU membership on the environment and funding. Ferret Fact Service could find no evidence of Richard Leonard backing a Leave vote during the referendum campaign. Leonard supported the triggering of Article 50, the formal start of the UK’s exiting process from the EU. In February 2017, the Scottish Parliament made a symbolic vote to oppose the triggering process. Three Labour MSP – including Richard Leonard – defied the party whip and voted against the motion. He has not backed calls for a second referendum on EU membership. However, this does not constitute supporting the Leave campaign, and occurred after the Brexit referendum had taken place. Ferret Fact Service verdict: False Keith Brown’s claim that Richard Leonard supported the Leave campaign is inaccurate and misleading. Leonard openly backed a Scottish Parliament motion to support the UK remaining in the European Union and Ferret Fact Service could find no examples of the Labour leader publicly expressing support for Brexit in the run-up to the vote in 2016. Ferret Fact Service (FFS) is a non-partisan fact checker, working to the International Fact-Checking Network fact-checkers’ code of principles. All the sources used in our checks are publicly available and the FFS fact-checking methodology can be viewed here . Want to suggest a fact check? Email us at factcheck@theferret.scot or join our community forum . Share Tweet Subscribe Brexit EU referendum European Union Jeremy Corbyn Keith Brown Scottish Government Scottish Parliament Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ View Comments (0) About us Contact Pitch us a story Privacy Trouble logging in? Complaints The Ferret is published by The Ferret Media Ltd, Registered Society, RS0040088. Manage cookie consent Find us on Mastodon Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join our co-operative now to get unlimited access. See other membership options Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Join now (£5 per month) You can join using Direct Debit, payment card or Paypal. Cancel at any time. If you are on a low-income you may be eligible for a free sponsored membership. Having trouble logging in? Try here. Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join now Hi! You can login using the form below. Not registered yet? Join now Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Having trouble logging in? Try here. Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Subscribe Privacy notice We use cookies on our website that help us remember your preferences and provide the best multi-media service we possibly can. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to allow all cookies. However you can adjust your Cookie Settings to disable non-essential cookies. Cookie settings ACCEPT Manage cookie consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of the website. We also use some non-necessary cookies that help us analyse and understand how you use this website and optimise your experience when we use third party services. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies, although you should be aware that opting-out may increase the possibility that some services may not work or display optimally. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non Necessary non-necessary Any cookies that may not vital for our website to function. By accepting this type of cookies you agree to let us record more information about you and your use of our website. Save & Accept Powered by