Hillary Clinton Has a Body Double-Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Hillary Clinton Has a Body Double-Unproven! Hillary Clinton Has a Body Double-Unproven! / Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / September 13, 2016 Hillary Clinton Has a Body Double- Unproven! Summary of eRumor: Hillary Clinton’s campaign used a body double after Clinton suffered a medical episode at a 9/11 ceremony in New York. The Truth: Rumors that Hillary Clinton has a body double are nothing but speculation at this point. The story unfolded when bystander video emerged of Clinton nearly fainting and stumbling from a curb before her aids loaded her into a van after a 9/11 event in New York. The situation played into conspiracy theories that Clinton has been hiding a major medical condition, most likely Parkinson’s disease. Clinton’s doctor, Lisa Bardack, released a statement saying that Clinton had been experiencing a cough related to allergies and that she had been diagnosed with pneumonia during a follow up visit on Friday: She was put on antibiotics, and was advised to rest and modify her schedule. While at (Sunday’s) event, she became overheated and dehydrated. I have just examined her and she is now re-hydrated and recovering nicely. After her stumble outside the 9/11 event, Clinton was reportedly taken to Chelsea Clinton’s NYC apartment to rest. Questions about a Clinton body double emerged after she appeared publicly, saying she was “feeling great” and, “It’s a beautiful day in New York.” Side-by-side pictures that were taken of Clinton before and after she emerged from the apartment argued that her nose looked suspiciously different: Other side-by-side pictures were used to argue that her cheek, teeth, smile and ears were different before and after she emerged from Chelsea’s apartment: Another side-by-side picture was used to argue that Clinton’s index finger was longer than her ring finger in an earlier picture — but that wasn’t the case when Clinton emerged from Chelsea’s apartment: In the end, it’s impossible to use these side-by-side pictures to definitively prove that a Clinton body double was used. Different lighting, different angles and different cameras create pictures that look very different, and that’s why we’re calling this one unproven. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x