Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi Had an Affair for 13 Years-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Government Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi Had an Affair for 13 Years-Fiction! Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi Had an Affair for 13 Years-Fiction! / Government / By Rich Buhler & Staff / December 5, 2017 Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi Had an Affair for 13 Years- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: Reports that Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi had an affair for13 years surfaced in November 2017. The Truth: A group of Panamanian websites that publish fabricated news reports are behind false rumors that Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi had an affair that lasted 13 years. These stories surfaced on November 29, 2017. Domains like DefenseUSA.website and PoliticsStraight.club ran a series of stories about the so-called breaking news. Although no credible sources were cited, the stories were viewed and shared tens of thousands of times. Fake news websites based in Panama are behind false rumors that Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi had an affair. The lack of credible sources was the first clue that rumors about Robert Mueller and Nancy Pelosi are fabrications. The initial report credited the scoop on the Mueller-Pelosi affair to Radar Online and celebrity gossip site TMZ. The websites were supposedly about to release reports about the affair — but that never happened. Still, the websites followed up with a series of “updates.” One update claimed that Robert Mueller was forced to resign over his affair with Nancy Pelosi. Another update claimed that Pelosi was “one of several” high-ranking Democrats that Mueller had affairs with. These reports cited only unnamed assistants. DefenseUSA.website and PoliticsStraight.club both have the same mailing address in Panama, according to online domain registration records. The identity of the websites’ administrators are withheld. But the sites were created within 24 hours of each other in October 2017, indicating the same person operates both. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x