Barack Obama's Social Security Number Actually Belonged to a Man Named Jean Paul Ludwig-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Barack Obama's Social Security Number Actually Belonged to a Man Named Jean Paul Ludwig-Fiction! Barack Obama's Social Security Number Actually Belonged to a Man Named Jean Paul Ludwig-Fiction! / Obama , Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Barack Obama’s Social Security Number Actually Belonged to a Man Named Jean Paul Ludwig- Fiction! Aissa Wayne Wrote Barack Obama’s Social Security Number is a Fake -Fiction! Summary of eRumor: This is a forwarded email that says Barack Obama used a Social Security number that once belonged to Jean Paul Ludwig, who emigrated to the U.S. in 1924 and died in Hawaii.  The email alleges that Obama got the number from his grandmother who worked in the Probate Office in the Honolulu Hawaii Courthouse where she would have access to the Social Security Numbers of deceased individuals. Update: February 28, 2014 – Version of this eRumor goes viral allegedly sent out by the daughter of actor John Wayne, Aissa Wayne. The Truth: According to federal records the Social Security number in question does not belong to Jean Paul Ludwig. TruthOrFiction.Com has contacted Ms. Wayne and she told us that she was not the author this eRumor. The Social Security Death Index Interactive Search for Jean Paul Ludwig shows a different number than what is mentioned in the eRumor and that he died in 1981. Ludwig’s date of death came after the date that Barack Obama registered for the draft so Obama’s grandmother could not have gotten his social security number. Some Background In 2008, questions were raised about the citizenship of Barack Hussein Obama. Southern California attorney and Obama eligibility challenger, Dr. Orly Taitz, began an investigation on the Social Security number used by Obama for his Selective Service registration.  The document from the Selective Service System confirming Obama’s draft registration was posted on the Orly Taitz website along with a “Notice of Motion and Motion for Clarification.” The motion says the form was obtained by a private investigator named Sankey. This document contains the same Social Security number mentioned in the eRumor and we believe it to be the source of the number in the eRumor. Taitz also posted a response from the Social Security Administration on her website that says that the number in question did not match the number in their records belonging to Barack Obama.  The report also said that the number matches one issued to an unnamed deceased person. A spokesperson from the Selective Service System confirmed for TruthorFiction.com that the Social Security number and the draft registration number on the document did indeed belong to Barack Obama and they have no other Social Security numbers associated with his name. Documents Posted on the Website of Dr. Orly Taitz Selective Service Registration of Barack Obama Document from the Social Security Administration that says the number in question does not match the number for President Barack Obama. Posted  6/18/11    Updated 02/28/14 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x