Debbie Reynolds Died One Day After Carrie Fisher–Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Celebrities Debbie Reynolds Died One Day After Carrie Fisher–Truth! Debbie Reynolds Died One Day After Carrie Fisher–Truth! / Celebrities / By Rich Buhler & Staff / December 29, 2016 Debbie Reynolds Died One Day After Carrie Fisher– Truth! Summary of eRumor: Debbie Reynolds died one day after her daughter, Carrie Fisher. The Truth: Debbie Reynolds, 84, died of an apparent stroke just one day after her 60-year-old daughter, Carrie Fisher, died of an apparent heart attack. The official cause of Debbie Reynolds death has not yet been released, and it’s not clear if an autopsy would be performed. But Todd Fisher, the brother of Carrie Fisher and son of Debbie Reynolds, told USA Today that his mother was heartbroken and “wanted to be with Carrie” after Fisher died four days after suffering a heart attack on a flight: https://twitter.com/tafish/status/814550722519805952 Debbie Reynolds’ health had been ailing and she has suffered multiple strokes. In May, Carrie Fisher talked about her mother’s health in an interview with People : “It’s a lot of times terrifying, but watching my mother, who’s incredibly resilient, coping with certain health issues that she’s had,” Fisher said. “We were really lucky we got really what probably could be her last (big project).” TMZ, meanwhile, detailed Debbie Reynolds’ last moments mourning the death of her daughter before suffering a stroke at her son’s home: Debbie Reynolds seemingly willed her own death Wednesday, telling her son before the stroke that claimed her life, “I miss her so much, I want to be with Carrie.” Todd Fisher tells us Debbie cracked early Wednesday morning from grief. She was at Todd’s home during the morning hours, talking about Carrie’s funeral, when she made the comment. Fifteen minutes later she had the stroke. Family sources tell us Debbie actually had several strokes this year and was in failing health, and they believe Carrie’s death was too much to bear. Although Reynolds’ exact cause of death isn’t clear, many believe that she died of what’s known as“broken heart syndrome.” And, while we can’t speak for Reynolds in this situation, there is scientific evidence that broken heart syndrome is a real phenomenon in which loved ones die days or just hours apart, The Guardian reports: …There is a thing called broken heart syndrome, believed to occur when someone loses a close partner or spouse. Death of a spouse is recognised as one of the most stressful things that can happen to a person. But as well as the mental anguish and grief (which are themselves very debilitating and not to be dismissed), many forget that stress also has a physical component. Stress can cause numerous physical ailments, and if the stress is sudden and serious enough, such as if a spouse dies, then these ailments can be very serious, affecting the heart. But even without the direct heart damage, the physical and emotional consequences of severe grief can take a serious toll on the body. This may be another reason for the stories we hear, which are invariably about people who have been together for several decades. The longevity of their relationship is invariably cited as evidence of their commitment, but it also means both partners are older. The aged body is a lot more frail and rundown than a youthful one, so the shock of losing a very longterm partner may be more than it can handle. In the end, reports that Debbie Reynolds died one after Carrie Fisher are true. We can’t, however, speak for Reynolds’ cause of death. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x