Prayer Requests for Heaven Ray Cox, Kidnapped 15-year-old-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Warnings Prayer Requests for Heaven Ray Cox, Kidnapped 15-year-old-Truth! Prayer Requests for Heaven Ray Cox, Kidnapped 15-year-old-Truth! / Pleas , Warnings / By Rich Buhler & Staff / November 30, 2017 Prayer Requests for Heaven Ray Cox, Kidnapped 15-year-old- Truth! Summary of eRumor: Prayer requests for Heaven Ray Cox, a 15-year-old Texas girl, circulated on Facebook in November 2017. The Truth: Prayer requests for Heaven Ray Cox that circulated in November 2017 are real. The 15-year-old girl was reported missing from her home in Mauriceville, Texas, on November 25th. The sheriff’s department in Orange County, Texas, said in a press release that Heaven Ray Cox’s mother, Tammy Cox, reported her daughter as a runaway on November 26th. Tammy thought Heaven, last seen the day before, was asleep in her bedroom. Police were notified around 3 p.m. when Tammy found her daughter missing and a note that said she was headed to California. Tammy Cox has posted regular updates about the search for her daughter on Facebook. On November 28th, Tammy posted that she had an update and “it isn’t good.” A California man who Heaven met on SnapChat had apparently kidnapped her: The man she has been talking to is a predator, who has apparently been manipulating her for some time, and in her current state of mind, she believes that he is her friend. She left a goodbye note to me and her Dad, and said that she wouldn’t have a phone, so I’m sure he has taken it from her, as it isn’t here, and I have torn her room apart. She is off her meds and is in a manic phase of bipolar disorder. Tammy Cox’s desperate post sparked an outpouring of support on social media. In addition to missing child bulletins, prayer requests for Heaven Ray Cox also circulated. Prayer requests for Heaven Ray Cox began circulating shortly after the 15-year-old was reported missing from her home in Texas. These bulletins and prayer requests for Heaven Ray Cox are real. Tammy Cox posted on November 30th that she didn’t have an updated on Heaven’s whereabouts. However, Tammy said she’d discovered her daughter’s passport missing. This is a developing story, and future updates will be posted here. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x