Whoopi Goldberg Wore Shirt Showing President Trump Shooting Himself-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Trump Whoopi Goldberg Wore Shirt Showing President Trump Shooting Himself-Fiction! Whoopi Goldberg Wore Shirt Showing President Trump Shooting Himself-Fiction! / Trump / By Rich Buhler & Staff / May 30, 2018 Whoopi Goldberg Wore Shirt Showing President Trump Shooting Himself- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: A photo showing Whoopi Goldberg wearing a shirt that shows President Trump shooting himself circulated on social media. The Truth: Whoopi Goldberg didn’t wear a shirt with President Trump shooting himself in the head on it. The original photo was taken at a Women’s March and shows her wearing a shirt that says, “And you thought I was a nasty woman before? Buckle up buttercup.” The image of Trump was added to the photo using photo editing software. The edited photo blew up in May 2018 after Roseanne Barr shared it on Twitter. That was after the “Roseanne’ reboot was canceled in response to a tweet in which Barr compared Valerie Jarrett to a character from Planet of the Apes. Barr shared the edited Whoopi Goldberg image in an attempt to argue there’s a double standard for liberal and conservative celebrities. The edited photo of Goldberg first surfaced in April 2017. Goldberg addressed the issue on “The View” in 2017, saying “Even though I don’t care for this man, I would never wear the shirt that’s there.” The original and edited images can be seen side-by-side here: The original image of Whoopi Goldberg at a 2017 Women’s March can be seen with an edited version showing a picture of President Trump shooting himself. Goldberg spoke out against Roseanne for sharing the edited images on the May 30th episode of The View. Again, she called the image a fake. And she spoke directly to Roseanne,“Now, some bonehead photoshopped a horrific image on the shirt and she retweeted this. So this is what I’m going to say, Roseanne: Just because you were caught with your pants down, don’t try to drag other people down with you. Don’t do that. There are times when you got to suck it up because you step in doo.” For her part, Roseanne later acknowledged that the image was a fake. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x