Green Beret Sniper Bryan Sikes Destroys Michael Moore in Letter –
Authorship Confirmed! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home 9/11 Attack on America Green Beret Sniper Bryan Sikes Destroys Michael Moore in Letter –
Authorship Confirmed! Green Beret Sniper Bryan Sikes Destroys Michael Moore in Letter –
Authorship Confirmed! / 9/11 Attack on America / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Green Beret Sniper Bryan Sikes Destroys Michael Moore in Letter – Authorship Confirmed! Summary of eRumor: Green Beret Sniper Bryan Sikes slammed filmmaker Michael Moore after Moore said on social media that he’d been taught that snipers are cowards. The Truth: It’s true that Bryan Sikes penned an open letter to Michael Moore that appeared at the website Clash Daily on January 25, 2015. The letter was written in response to comments that Michael Moore made about snipers on Twitter. Moore said that he’d been taught that all snipers were cowards after the move American Sniper, which tells the story of former Navy SEAL sniper Chris Kyle, became a box office hit . Moore later denied that his comment was directed toward Chris Kyle, or American Sniper. Bryan Sikes responded with an open letter that appeared on Clash Daily, a website founded by conservative author Doug Giles. In the open letter , which was shared more than 300,000 times within days of publication, Sikes begins by calling Michael Moore a sweetheart: “Mr. Moore- Good afternoon there sweetheart, I hope this finds you alive and well. You can thank our men and women of the armed forces for that, by the way, and that also includes us cowardly snipers. It seems you’ve found time between licking the jelly off your fingers and releasing your grasp of a bear claw to tweet some junk about snipers being cowards. My buddies and I got a good laugh over the tweet, so I thank you. For a guy worth $50 million dollars, you sure have quite a bit to bitch and cry about. I guess like a moth to flame, you too gravitate towards things that are popular and in the moment — in this case it’s snipers. Too bad for you that your attempt at being relevant via your 70+ year old family experience has failed. It has only made you look dumber than a bag of hammers. Next time you should try something more original than going after snipers for one reason or another…that was so last month.” This isn’t the first time that Bryan Sikes has taken issue with Hollywood personality, either. In May of 2014, Sikes blasted actress Gwyneth Paltrow for comparing cyberbullying to combat in another open letter published at Clash Daily: “To Miss Paltrow, I’d first like to start out by saying how terrible I feel for you and all your friends that on a daily basis have to endure mean words written by people you don’t know. I can only imagine the difficulty of waking up in a 12,000 square foot Hollywood home and having your assistant retrieve your iPhone, only to see that the battery is low and someone on twitter (the social media concept that you and all of your friends contribute to on an hourly basis to feed your ego and narcissistic ways), has written a mean word or 2 about you. You’ve hit the nail on the head, war is exactly like that. You should receive a medal for the burden you have carried on your shoulders due to these meanies on social media. You said, “Its almost like, how in war, you go through this bloody dehumanizing thing and then something is defined out of it.” I could see how you, and others like you in “the biz”, could be so insecure and mentally weak that you could pair the difficulty of your life on twitter to my brothers who have had their limbs ripped off and seen their friends shot, blown up, burned and disfigured, or wake up every morning in pain – while just starting the day is a challenge. How about our wives? The ones that sign on to be there for us through thick and thin, that help us to shake the hardships of war upon our return? And do all this while being mothers to our kids, keeping bills in order because we are always gone, and keeping our lives glued together. They do all this, by the way, without a team of accountants, nanny’s, personal assistants, and life coaches. Yeah, reading a mean tweet is just like all that.” So, Bryan Sikes’ open letter to Michael Moore isn’t necessarily a surprise. The former Green Beret and recipient of the Purple Heart has a history of outspoken support for veterans. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x