Synagen IQ Boosts Brain Function and Overall Health-Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Health / Medical Synagen IQ Boosts Brain Function and Overall Health-Unproven! Synagen IQ Boosts Brain Function and Overall Health-Unproven! / Health / Medical / By Rich Buhler & Staff / September 2, 2015 Synagen IQ Boosts Brain Function and Overall Health- Unproven! Summary of eRumor: An over-the-counter supplement called Synagen IQ boosts brain function, improves memory and promotes overall wellness. The Truth: Claims about the medical benefits of Synagen IQ are unproven. Synagen IQ is classified as a supplement, so the FDA doesn’t regulate it. That means the manufacturer of Synagen IQ doesn’t have to back up its claims that the supplement increases brain power, focus, memory and energy with clinical trials or studies. There’s no way to independently confirm or debunk those claims, either. Synagen IQ is marketed as an “all natural” supplement, but the manufacturer won’t reveal what its active ingredients are. Given all that, it’s impossible to prove whether or not Synagen IQ actually boosts brain function. But so-called miracle drugs that are supposed to reverse memory loss and boost brain function are nothing new. Back in 2010, another over-the-counter supplement called Procera AVH hit the market with an identical claim to “boost brain power.” The medical director of the Byrd Alzheimer’s Institute at the University of South Florida said Procera AVH and similar products “give people false hope.” The Tampa Bay Times reports : Many doctors say the supplements lack scientific evidence to prove they work, and as nutritional supplements, they are not regulated by the federal government as are medications. The ads tout clinical trials, but these are at best small, short-term tests published in journals that are not well-known or respected — hardly comparable with accepted medical standards. Some brain supplements do contain ingredients that have been studied extensively and are used widely for memory disorders. The moss extract huperzine A, found in Procera AVH, has similar properties to the Alzheimer’s drug Aricept, and is the most common treatment for Alzheimer’s in China, Smith said. But with vague labeling and little regulation, there’s no way to know how much of these ingredients are in any supplement, or how high their quality is. So, there’s no scientific or medical research to back up claims that supplements like Synagen IQ actually work. It’s best to talk to your doctor before taking any of these over-the-counter pills, and to not believe claims that aren’t backed up with research. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x