Minions from “Despicable Me” Were Inspired by Tortured Jewish Children-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Miscellaneous Minions from “Despicable Me” Were Inspired by Tortured Jewish Children-Fiction! Minions from “Despicable Me” Were Inspired by Tortured Jewish Children-Fiction! / Miscellaneous / By Rich Buhler & Staff / August 6, 2015 Minions from “Despicable Me” Were Inspired by Tortured Jewish Children- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: Minions, the little yellow oval-shaped creatures that appear in the “Despicable Me” movie franchise, were inspired by tortured Jewish children during World War II. The Truth: This one is a hoax. Many blog posts have speculated that the goofy Minions from the “Despicable Me” movies were inspired by Jewish children who were tortured and killed by Nazis. The website Before It’s News , for example, speculates: What most of us are not aware of is where these characters originated. The real Minions who very closely resemble the animated Minions were Jewish children adopted by Nazi scientists for the sole purpose of using them in poison gas experiments. The Cyclon-B gas component these kids were subjected to was the same used in Nazi gas chambers. Those who believe that tortured Jewish children inspired the Minions point to a dated photo as evidence. The photo shows people wearing full-head helmets with circular eyeholes that resemble the Minions’ head shape and trademark goggles. It’s been said that the helmets in the photo were used by the Nazis to administer poison gas — but that’s not true. The photo shows people wearing early deep-sea diving suits that were widely used for over a century. Still, websites like Before It’s News have held the photo of deep-sea divers up as proof that the Minions are being used to advance modern day Nazism: What the Minion movie should be telling us is that there is a push by Hollywood and the Obama Administration in getting us to eventually accept modern day Nazism. The resemblance between the Jewish kids experimented on and the animated Minion characters is much too close to be a coincidence. Again, the photo does not show Jewish kids being experimented on by Nazis. It shows deep-sea divers Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x