Comedian Michelle Wolf Was Arrested for Beastiality- Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Trump Comedian Michelle Wolf Was Arrested for Beastiality- Fiction! Comedian Michelle Wolf Was Arrested for Beastiality- Fiction! / Trump / By Rich Buhler & Staff / May 2, 2018 Comedian Michelle Wolf Was Arrested for Bestiality- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: After a controversial routine at the White House Correspondents Dinner, rumors spread that comedian Michelle Wolf was once arrested for bestiality in Hershey, Pennsylvania. The Truth: A website that allows users to generate fictional newspaper headlines is behind false reports that comedian Michelle Wolf was arrested for bestiality. The rumor appeared after Michelle Wolf was criticized for roasting White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders and other administration officials at the 2018 White House Correspondents Dinner. The fiery routine made Wolf a target for criticism, and not all of it was based in fact. A fake newspaper clip generator was used to spread false rumors that comedian Michelle Wolf was arrested for bestiality. One such tidbit was a screenshot of a newspaper headline stating “Wolf guilty of bestiality.” The article identifies Wolf as “aspiring comedian from Hershey” who pleaded guilty to “engaging in illegal sexual intercourse with a number of male dogs.” The first giveaway that the article is a hoax is the date: Sunday, July 10, 2015. In reality, July 10, 2015 was a Friday — not a Sunday. The second giveaway is that it looks exactly like a phony newspaper headline generator that’s free and easy to use. You simply plug in the desired headline, date, and a few paragraphs of text, and the website spits out a screenshot of your headline in a newspaper. A fake headline generator makes it easy for users to spread false reports like this one. Michelle Wolf is actually from Hershey, but she was never accused or convicted of bestiality. For good measure, we even scoured local media reports. So, rest assured that this rumor is fiction. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x