95 Year Old Former U.S. Naval Sailor Tells Obama to Shape up or Ship Out-
Opinion! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics 95 Year Old Former U.S. Naval Sailor Tells Obama to Shape up or Ship Out-
Opinion! 95 Year Old Former U.S. Naval Sailor Tells Obama to Shape up or Ship Out-
Opinion! / Obama , Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 95 Year Old Former U.S. Naval Sailor Tells Obama to Shape up or Ship Out- Opinion! Summary of eRumor: This is an open letter to President Obama from a 95 year old blogger named Harold Estes.   The letter tells the President to “shape up or ship out.” The Truth: This opinion began circulating in tsunami proportions over the weekend of November 21, 2009 and the letter was found posted under the title of “Do Your Job” on the Congressional news and informational site Congress.org.  According to the web site, copies of the letter were sent to President Barack Obama, Rep. F. Allen Boyd, Sen. Bill Nelson and Sen. George LeMieux Click for letter. The article refers to what critics of the Obama Administration have dubbed the “2009 Apologetic Tour.” In April 2009 the President spoke to an audience assembled at a town hall in Strasbourg, France where he said, “In America, there’s a failure to appreciate Europe’s leading role in the world. Instead of celebrating your dynamic union and seeking to partner with you to meet common challenges, there have been times where America has shown arrogance and been dismissive, even derisive.” Click here for CBS full transcript of speech. The President took criticism for saying that the United States was not a Christian nation. The comment was made, but the “Christian nation” portion is frequently quoted out of context. On 12/6/09 he told an audience in Turkey, “And I’ve said before that one of the great strengths of the United States is — although as I mentioned, we have a very large Christian population, we do not consider ourselves a Christian nation or a Jewish nation or a Muslim nation; we consider ourselves a nation of citizens who are bound by ideals and a set of values.” Click here for White House Transcript Below are similar eRumors: School Teacher’s letter on Obama comments: Click here Pat Boone’s syndicated article on Obama comments: Click Here updated 12/02/09 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x