Malia Obama Fired from Internship at Spanish Embassy-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Obama Malia Obama Fired from Internship at Spanish Embassy-Fiction! Malia Obama Fired from Internship at Spanish Embassy-Fiction! / Obama / By Rich Buhler & Staff / July 6, 2017 Malia Obama Fired from Internship at Spanish Embassy- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: President Obama’s daughter, Malia Obama, was fired from a cushy internship at the U.S. Embassy in Spain. The Truth: Malia Obama interned at the U.S. Embassy in Spain over the summer of 2016. False reports that she was fired after spending just a few days on the job surfaced a  year later, in June 2017, on a self-described “political satire” website. Claims that Malia Obama was fired from the Spanish Embassy stem from a report that appeared at Freedom Crossroads on June 29, 2017. The post, which appears under the headline, “Malia Obama Fired From Cushy Internship At Spanish Embassy,” begins: How does an 18-year-old girl fresh out of high school who has been caught smoking pot more than the Bush twins were caught drinking land a job as an intern at the US Embassy in Spain? Privilege. Obama and his pals liked to call it “white privilege,” but they really can’t in this case, can they? In this case the daughter of a president was moved to the front of the line. It didn’t last long, however, because just like at home, Malia has issues with staying out of trouble. She was caught, by Embassy Security — aka the US Marines — on the roof of the building burning a doobie and playing with the Ambassador’s carrier pigeons. Ambassador Bedard is an avid hobbyist. The first clue that the report isn’t true is that Freedom Crossroads describes its content as “a boatload of bullhonkey” and “works of pure satirical fiction” that are designed to give the “fist-shakers of the world something to hate.” A disclaimer for Freedom Crossroads makes clear that it’s stories, including the one about Malia Obama being fired from the Spanish Embassy, are “political satire.” Nevertheless, the false report that Malia Obama was fired from an internship at the Spanish Embassy was re-reported as fact by various fringe websites and YouTube channels, which gave the false claim even more reach. In reality, Malia Obama started an internship at the U.S. Embassy in Spain in July 2016, ABC Spain reported . Her internship in Madrid was to extend through the end of the summer, so reports that surfaced in June 2017 that Malia Obama was fired don’t fit the timeline. That’s why we’re calling this one “fiction.” Malia Obama has been the subject of numerous false reports over the years. Click here to review our previous investigations. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x