Malik Obama Plans to Vote for Donald Trump-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Malik Obama Plans to Vote for Donald Trump-Truth! Malik Obama Plans to Vote for Donald Trump-Truth! / Obama , Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / July 25, 2016 Malik Obama Plans to Vote for Donald Trump- Truth! Summary of eRumor: President Obama’s half-brother, Malik Obama, plans to vote for Donald Trump. The Truth: Reports that Malik Obama plans to vote for Donald Trump in November are true. Rumors that President Obama’s half-brother said he would vote for Trump started with a New York Post report that was published under the headline, “Why Obama’s Half-Brother Says He’ll Be Voting for Donald Trump” that was published on July 24th. The story reports that Malik Obama plans to vote for Trump because “he speaks from the heart” and because he as “deep disappointment” in President Obama’s time in office: Obama, 58, a longtime Democrat, said his “deep disappointment” in his brother Barack’s administration has led him to recently switch allegiance to “the party of Lincoln.” Barack Obama is seen with his half-brother, Malik.Photo: AP The last straw, he said, came earlier this month when FBI Director James Comey recommended not prosecuting Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton over her use of a private e-mail servers while secretary of state. “She should have known better as the custodian of classified information,” said Obama. He’s also annoyed that Clinton and President Obama killed Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy, whom he called one of his best friends. Malik Obama dedicated his 2012 biography of his late father to Khadafy and others who were “making this world a better place.” “I still feel that getting rid of Khadafy didn’t make things any better in Libya,” he said. “My brother and the secretary of state disappointed me in that regard.” But Malik Obama said that what bothers him the most about the Democratic Party is it’s support of same-sex marriage: “I feel like a Republican now because they don’t stand for same-sex marriage, and that appeals to me,” he said. Obama believes strongly in the institution of marriage — so strongly that he has at least three current wives, although press reports have put the number as high as 12. When asked by The Post how many wives and children he has, Obama demurred. “That’s personal,” he said. Follow-up reports confirmed Malik Obama’s plans to vote for Donald Trump in No November. Malike Obama confirmed in an interview with Reuters that he agreed with Trump’s stance on Muslims — even though Malik is a Muslim himself: Malik, a U.S. citizen, has lived in Washington since 1985 where he worked with various firms before becoming an independent financial consultant. Trump’s stance against Muslims coming in to the United States was understandable even to Muslims like himself, Malik said. “I’m a Muslim, of course, but you can’t have people going around just shooting people and killing people just in the name of Islam,” he said. He criticized President Obama’s record in the White House saying he had not done much for the American people and his extended family despite the high expectations that accompanied his election in 2008, both in the United States and Kenya. So, given that multiple sources have reported that Malik Obama plans to vote for Donald Trump in November, we’re calling this one “truth.” Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x