New Islamic Youth Outreach Center in Dearborn “Sympathetic” to ISIS-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Government New Islamic Youth Outreach Center in Dearborn “Sympathetic” to ISIS-Fiction! New Islamic Youth Outreach Center in Dearborn “Sympathetic” to ISIS-Fiction! / Government , Religious / By Rich Buhler & Staff / July 10, 2015 New Islamic Youth Outreach Center in Dearborn “Sympathetic” to ISIS- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: President Obama has signed an executive order that will pave the way for a new Islamic youth outreach center in Dearborn, Michigan, that is “sympathetic” to the ISIS terrorist group. The Truth: This is yet another hoax about so-called Islamic extremism in Dearborn, Michigan. The hoax was started by The People’s Cube , the fake news website that (falsely) reported that Rosie O’Donnel had gotten an ISIS tattoo. This time, the website reported that President Obama had signed an executive order to allow an ISIS-supporting Islamic youth outreach center to open in Dearborn: Following months of obstruction by state officials, the federal government intervened on behalf of a Muslim group who is outspokenly supportive of the Islamic State, to open the doors of a new Islamic youth outreach center in a lower-income area in the city of Dearborn. The facility will be run by Syrian-born Aisha Hani-Salaam, a recent immigrant and unapologetic supporter of ISIS. President Obama, who signed the executive order to allow the center, said, “We need to take advantage of every opportunity to end the violence between our people. Hopefully this will start a new era in relations between the United States and the religion of Islam. Muslims are understandably angry over the Western media’s overblown portrayal of ISIL as merciless killers. I believe this is a good opportunity to end the fighting and use diplomacy to usher in a new era of peace, as well as gain a powerful new ally in that part of the world.” Despite the President’s hopeful and reassuring message, Hani-Salaam remains angry and openly criticizes some American Muslims for their ‘lukewarm’ traditional condemnations of the United States. Within days of publication, the story had been shared more than 30,000 times on social media sites. Taken out of context, many were duped into believing the story was true. Dearborn has been at the center of a number of hoaxes about Islamic extremism. It’s a popular target because it has one of the largest Muslim populations in the world outside of the Middle East. About 100,000 people live in Dearborn, and about 40,000 of them are Arab-Americans. TruthorFiction.com has previously investigated false reports that Sharia law had been declared in Dearborn , and that a sign there warned Allah would kill America . The report that President Obama had signed an executive order to open an Islamic youth outreach center that supports ISIS is yet another hoax. You can find a list of all the executive orders signed by President Obama here , and the Islamic youth center order isn’t among them. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x