Oklahoma Laws concerning the 10 Commandments, illegal aliens, firearms
and state sovereignty- Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Government Oklahoma Laws concerning the 10 Commandments, illegal aliens, firearms
and state sovereignty- Truth! Oklahoma Laws concerning the 10 Commandments, illegal aliens, firearms
and state sovereignty- Truth! / Government / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Oklahoma will publicly display the Ten Commandments- Truth! Oklahoma will collect DNA samples for a federal database from criminals and illegal aliens – Truth! Oklahoma will deport illegal aliens if arrested for criminal activity  – Truth! Oklahoma will declare itself a sovereign state – Truth! Oklahoma gun law confirms the right to bear arms – Truth! Summary of eRumor: A forwarded email about a number of bills passed in the state of Oklahoma.  The email says that the state voted to approve the display of the Ten Commandments near the state capitol and a recent bill will allow law enforcement to deport criminals that are caught in the state and are in the country without permission.   Another law passed that will allow law enforcement to collect DNA samples from criminals and illegal aliens for the national database.   Other laws passed include one to declare state sovereignty and uphold the right to bear arms. The Truth: These new laws in the state of Oklahoma are true. Oklahoma House bill 1330 authorized a monument resembling  the Ten Commandments to be placed in the State Capitol Park in Oklahoma City. The Oklahoma House passed a final version of the bill by a vote of 83-2, on April 23, 2009.  The Oklahoma Senate had passed it on a vote of 37-9. Click for Pyro Daily Times article. On April 23, 2009, House Bill 2245 passed  in the Oklahoma Senate with a vote of 43 to 0.  The Oklahoma Criminal Illegal Alien Rapid Repatriation Act of 2009 “would allow the Oklahoma Department of Corrections to immediately send inmates who are in the country illegally to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for deportation.” Click for KTUL article. State Bill 1102 would require that illegal aliens and criminals convicted of a host of misdemeanor crimes submit themselves to DNA sample collection from law enforcement and data to be entered into a federal database.  Named after a University of Oklahoma ballet student raped and killed in 1996, the bill was approved April 20, 2009. Click for article. Oklahoma’s House Concurrent Resolution 1028 will give the state sovereignty. The resolution’s author, state Rep. Charles Key, R-Oklahoma City, told reporters, “The point of the resolution is to tell federal lawmakers and the president to stick to their jobs as outlined in the U.S. Constitution and quit handing out federal money to failing companies.”  There are several other states sovereignty movements in the nation including Texas, California and Alaska. Click for Oklahoman news article. House Bill 1025 was passed by the Oklahoma house by a vote 70-8 which would make it a misdemeanor for employers to inquire if job applicants own a gun according to May 13,2009.  HB 1025 is on its way to the Senate for a vote. Click for Oklahoman news article. updated 05/13/09 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x