Former Clinton Hit Man Larry Nichols Confesses to Murders-Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Former Clinton Hit Man Larry Nichols Confesses to Murders-Unproven! Former Clinton Hit Man Larry Nichols Confesses to Murders-Unproven! / Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / August 10, 2016 Former Clinton Hit Man Larry Nichols Confesses to Murders- Unproven! Summary of eRumor: Larry Nichols, a former Clinton confident, has come forward with allegations that he murdered people around the world to help the Clintons. The Truth: Larry Nichols’ claims that he murdered people for the Clintons are unproven. Nichols made the claim that he worked as a hitman for the Clintons in an appearance on a fringe radio show in September 2013 (The Clintons) sent me overseas to kill people for them and told me it was for the good of the country. So, when they asked me to do it for them in the states, it felt no different. The real truth is, I did it for the money and I didn’t give a s*it about the women I beat and the men I murdered. There’s no way to confirm that Nichols’ story is true since it’s based entirely on first-person accounts. But, if Nichols had actually committed murders, it would seem to defy logic for him to admit to it on a radio show and risk prosecution. While serving as governor of Arkansas, Clinton hired Nichols to work as the marketing director for the Arkansas Development Finance Authority. Clinton fired him in 1988, however, for making unauthorized long-distance phone calls to Central America, allegedly to support the Contras in Nicaragua, the New York Times reported in 1997: Nichols, for his part, became convinced that Bill Clinton himself had some vague but sinister Central American connection during the time he was Governor. It’s a connection that in Nichols’s view involved cocaine shipments, money-laundering and gun-running, all in and around the Mena airport in western Arkansas while Clinton was Governor. Nichols sued Clinton to contest his firing. He charged not only that Clinton was remiss in not investigating Mena but also that he had misused state funds to romance five women. Nichols’ lawsuit, and claims that Clinton had used state funds to romance five women in particular, momentarily became a major issue during Clinton’s first presidential campaign. By January 1992, however, Nichols dropped the lawsuit and said the media “have made a circus out of this thing, it has gone way too far,” the Los Angeles Times reported in 1992: In his statement, Nichols said: “It is time to call the fight I have with Bill Clinton over. . . . I set out to destroy him for what I believed happened to me.” But Nichols didn’t actually call off the fight with the Clintons in 1992. From telling the Times that, “They may just kill me,” in 1997 to telling Alex Jones that he had vowed to stop Hillary in 2015, Nichols has remained a vocal opponent of the Clintons all along. And, given that there’s not proof beyond a personal account, we’re calling Nichols’ claims that he murdered people for the Clintons “unproven.” Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x