Nancy Pelosi's Daughters Arrested for Selling Cocaine-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Nancy Pelosi's Daughters Arrested for Selling Cocaine-Fiction! Nancy Pelosi's Daughters Arrested for Selling Cocaine-Fiction! / Crime / Police , Politics / By Rich Buhler & Staff / July 13, 2017 Nancy Pelosi’s Daughters Arrested for Selling Cocaine- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi’s daughters, Julie and Nicole Pelosi, were arrested for trafficking cocaine and other drugs in July 2017. The Truth: A website that publishes “works of satirical fiction” is behind false reports about Nancy Pelosi’s daughters being arrested for trafficking drugs. The story appeared at Freedom Crossroads under the headline, “ Julie And Nicole Pelosi Dragged Into Court In Handcuffs .” The report, which has been widely shared on social media, begins: The two women, 24 and 27-years-old, were caught at the border with more than 200 pounds of pure cocaine in their Winnebago. The girls tried to use their name to get through customs without being searched. It didn’t work.After agreeing to wear a wire for a lower charge, they were booked in officially for After agreeing to wear a wire for a lower charge, they were booked in officially for trafficking under 50 pounds of a controlled substance rather than over 50 pounds or a class A narcotic. Basically, they’ll see the same punishment as someone caught with 49 pounds of pot, which in today’s day and age is next to nothing. The first clue that the story is a hoax is that Nancy Pelosi does not have daughters named Julie and Nicole. And a photo that accompanies the post that supposedly shows Nancy Pelosi’s daughters being arrested actually shows two British women, Michaella McCollum and Melissa Reid , who were arrested in 2013 for smuggling cocaine out of Peru. A photo of two British women who were arrested in 2013 for smuggling drugs has been falsely identified as Nancy Pelosi’s daughters. Another clue that the story is a hoax is the website’s disclaimer, which makes clear that its content should not be taken seriously: We believe that there is nothing more precious than the mind of an aging conservative. Here we gather a boatload of bullhonkey, works of pure satirical fiction, to give the fist-shakers of the world a reason to hate. Reality is often in the eye of the beholder. You won’t find any of it here. Although Freedom Crossroads clearly identifies itself as fiction, the story has been picked up and re-reported by countless fringe sites that don’t clearly identify their content as fiction. A similar false report that Nancy Pelosi’s son was arrested on murder charges circulated in March 2017. Click here for our full report on that one. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x