State Department Reported Arizona to the United Nations Human Rights
Commission-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Government State Department Reported Arizona to the United Nations Human Rights
Commission-Truth! State Department Reported Arizona to the United Nations Human Rights
Commission-Truth! / Government / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 The State Department Reported Arizona to the United Nations Human Rights Commission Over Immigration Bill- Truth! Summary of eRumor: Various forwarded emails warning that the Obama Administration has reported the State of Arizona to the United Nations Human Rights Commission for its passage of SB-1070, the controversial immigration law. Some allege that by doing so, President Obama gave jurisdiction over the Arizona issue to the United Nations. The Truth: A Universal Periodic Review report to the United Nations was filed by the U.S. State Department on August 20, 2010  that included a legal challenge by U.S. Department of Justice to Arizona’s SB-1070 Immigration Law as of one the ways the U.S. was protecting human rights. The 95 th paragraph of the report said, “A recent Arizona law, S.B. 1070, has generated significant attention and debate at home and around the world. The issue is being addressed in a court action that argues that the federal government has the authority to set and enforce immigration law. That action is ongoing; parts of the law are currently enjoined.” Click for text of the report. A spokesperson from Arizona Governor Jan Brewer’ office told TruthOrFiction.com that the Governor has filed a formal protest with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton condemning the inclusion of the legal challenge to SB-1070.  Calling it “Downright offensive,” Governor Brewer requested that the reference be removed. Also in a written reply to the report, Brewer said, “The idea of our own American government submitting the duly enacted laws of a state of the United States to ‘review’ by the United Nations is internationalism run amok and unconstitutional.” Click for Governor Brewer’s letter to Hillary Clinton. This eRumor went viral over the weekend of August 28, 2010 and various emails are being circulated alleging that the Obama administration has hauled the state of Arizona before the United Nations Human Rights Commission and that President Obama has given the United Nations jurisdiction to go after the State of Arizona. Updated 09/2/10 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x