Charmin Releasing Pumpkin Spice Toilet Paper-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Miscellaneous Charmin Releasing Pumpkin Spice Toilet Paper-Fiction! Charmin Releasing Pumpkin Spice Toilet Paper-Fiction! / Miscellaneous / By Rich Buhler & Staff / September 15, 2016 Charmin Releasing Pumpkin Spice Toilet Paper- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: Rumors have gone viral that Charmin is releasing pumpkin spice scented toilet paper this fall. The Truth: Charmin won’t be releasing pumpkin spice toilet paper this fall, contrary to a viral Facebook post. Questions about whether the pumpkin spice craze had “gone too far” seem to come up every fall as companies look to cash in on consumer love of pumpkin spice flavored and scented products. And the pumpkin spice craze has also become a popular target for parodies with people editing and photoshopping pumpkin spice versions of products that never should be (and aren’t) sold. In fact, Buzzfeed published a list of pumpkin spice products “that don’t exist and should never exist” in September 2014. Among the list was pumpkin spice toothpaste, pumpkin spice mouthwash, and, of course, pumpkin spice toilet paper supposedly made by Charmin. The idea of pumpkin spice toilet paper got more traction as fall approached in 2016 with a creatively photoshopped image of what a package of pumpkin spice toilet paper might look like: The photo was shared by a Facebook account operated by My Fridge Food , a website that allows visitors to generate recipes based on what food is already in their fridge. The post was likely shared as a spoof on the pumpkin spice craze, but taken out of context commenters on social believe it was true. They reacted with a mix of excitement, outrage and disbelief about pumpkin spice toilet paper. Rest assured, you won’t be see pumpkin spice toilet paper on store shelves this fall. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x