Labor Deals and Pension Savings: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , Government , San Diego City Finances Labor Deals and Pension Savings: Fact Check by Lisa Halverstadt April 12, 2013 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “(Five-year deals with the city’s unions) give us in the first year $25 million, almost free money, because of a calculation of our pension payments, and $25 million in the second year,” Mayor Bob Filner said in an April 8 interview with KPBS. Determination: True Analysis: Last June, San Diego voters approved a pension reform initiative that supporters claimed would save the city nearly $1 billion over the next 30 years. The measure aimed to accomplish that with a five-year freeze on pensionable pay, which will shave an estimated $963 million from the city’s long-term pension bill. (Another element of the initiative, a transition to 401(k) plans for new workers, will cut into those savings .) To achieve those savings, the city must persuade its six labor unions to agree to freeze staffers’ pensionable salaries for five years. Mayor Bob Filner has publicly pushed for five-year agreements . He aimed to pressure City Councilmembers and union negotiators who aren’t yet sold on the idea in a Monday appearance on KPBS’s “Evening Edition.” The mayor claimed the city’s pension bill could shrink by $25 million in both the 2014 and 2015 fiscal years if five-year deals can be reached. If that happens, Filner said he could close an estimated $40 million budget gap by tapping into those savings rather than the city’s reserve funds. We decided to fact check Filner because the statement is likely to make its way into discussion of the mayor’s first budget and the city’s labor deals. Mark Hovey, CEO of the city’s pension system, said the city approached the San Diego City Employees’ Retirement System last month to inquire about the actual savings associated with five-year pensionable pay freezes. Hovey asked Cheiron, an outside firm that calculates potential pension costs, to run the numbers on the following scenarios, among others: • Projected savings if the city and all six labor groups agree to a five-year pensionable pay freeze • Projected savings if the city implemented the freeze on a year-by-year basis over the next five years The response: The city could save $25.2 million in the fiscal year that begins in July and $26.9 million in the 2015 fiscal year. (You can check out the full report here.) Come July, the city is expected to pay $275.4 million in pension costs . The bill could drop to about $250 million with six five-year labor deals. These savings are possible because the pension system assumes an annual 3.75 percent increase in staffers’ pensionable pay. A pensionable pay freeze that lasts more than a year allows the system to assume savings over the long haul, Hovey said. So if the mayor can only persuade the City Council and the city’s six unions to agree to pay freezes on a year-by-year basis until 2019, as Proposition B requires, the city’s pension bill won’t change in the first two years. That means potential pension savings wouldn’t be available to help the city balance its budget this year or next year. Here’s a visual look at the potential savings over the next five years, according to the report: Graphic by Lisa Halverstadt The pension savings Filner cited on KPBS are very close to the mark so we decided his statement is true. But what are the chances he’ll see these savings? Union and city leaders are meeting behind closed doors in hopes of hashing out a deal. If the city reaches five-year deals, Hovey said an actuary will need to assess their impacts and share them with the pension system board. The board would need to agree to reduce the city’s pension bill before it comes due on July 1. There’s an irony worth considering here: Last August, then-Councilman Carl DeMaio stood with the city’s current Republican council members, all of whom supported Prop. B, and pledged there would be enough council support to ensure the pensionable pay freezes assumed under the initiative would go forward despite ongoing legal battles. Nearly a year later, Councilmembers Kevin Faulconer, Mark Kersey, Scott Sherman and Lorie Zapf may have a choice: Endorse labor deals that incorporate a five-year pay freeze, instant budgetary savings and a win for the mayor, or agree to one-year deals that diminish those bragging rights and the associated savings. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Lisa Halverstadt is a reporter at Voice of San Diego. Know of something she should check out? You can contact her directly at lisa.halverstadt@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.325.0528. Follow @lisahalverstadt Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . Voice of San Diego is a nonprofit that depends on you, our readers. Please donate to keep the service strong. Click here to find out more about our supporters and how we operate independently. WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bob Filner , Carl Demaio , Ceo , City Council , Councilman , Fact Check: True , Kpbs , Labor , Lorie Zapf , Mark Hovey , Mark Kersey , Mayor , Pension , Retirement , Scott Sherman Lisa Halverstadt Lisa is a senior investigative reporter who digs into some of San Diego's biggest challenges including homelessness, city real estate debacles, the region's... More by Lisa Halverstadt Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack