Fact Check: Ease of the Chargers Leaving | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Chargers Stadium , Fact Check , Government , News Fact Check: Ease of the Chargers Leaving by Keegan Kyle November 18, 2010 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “The Chargers are literally just a check away from leaving Qualcomm Stadium: between February 1 and April 30 of every year from now through 2020, the Chargers can get out of their lease by writing a check to the city of San Diego — this year, the amount is about $26 million, and it decreases annually,” Fanhouse reported Nov. 15 in a story about a potential NFL stadium in Los Angeles. Determination: True Analysis: The buzz surrounding a new Chargers stadium intensified this week after Fanhouse.com reported that Alex Spanos has hired Goldman Sachs to sell a minority share in the team. Spanos now owns 36 percent of the team while his four children split another 60 percent. Spanos had been reportedly pitching the share to wealthy individuals in Los Angeles, where developers have recently increased their efforts to relocate an NFL team. The Chargers are among several NFL teams viewed as potential candidates for Los Angeles, Fanhouse noted, because it could easily end its stadium deal with the city of San Diego. The Chargers are literally just a check away from leaving Qualcomm Stadium: between February 1 and April 30 of every year from now through 2020, the Chargers can get out of their lease by writing a check to the city of San Diego — this year, the amount is about $26 million, and it decreases annually. And in fact, that’s true. If the team wants to leave, it must notify the city during the three-month period between February and May and pay the city for breaking the lease. The next period begins February 2011 and the cost of breaking the lease would be $25.8 million. This graphic shows how the cost of breaking the lease decreases each year through 2020. Essentially, yes, the Chargers are one check away from leaving Qualcomm Stadium. But there’s still a major hurdle that the team would have to overcome before moving to Los Angeles or any other city. The National Football League requires the approval of at least three-fourths of the other teams in order for a team to relocate. Before transferring a franchise to another city, teams must provide audited financial reports, explain efforts to improve the current stadium and describe how the stadium doesn’t meet its needs. Weighing whether to approve transfers, the league looks at factors like fan loyalty, the willingness to remedy stadium deficiencies, the team’s finances, any change in ownership, other teams’ locations and whether the stadium owner opposes the transfer. Since the city owns Qualcomm Stadium, it would be able to advise the league on whether to allow the Chargers to leave town. So while the Chargers could simply write a check and leave the stadium, that wouldn’t automatically cut the team’s ties to San Diego. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? Please contact Keegan Kyle directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668 and follow him on Twitter: twitter.com/keegankyle . WHAT TO READ NEXT City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Everything You Need to Know About Water Vending Machines Encinitas Had the Only North County Sales Tax Measure That Failed. This May Be Why. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Chargers , Chargers Stadium , Fact Check: True , Fanhouse , Qualcomm Stadium Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack