Fact Check: Alvarez's Pension Reform Plan | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in City Council , Community , David Alvarez , Elections , Fact Check , Government , Mayoral Candidates 2014 , Mayoral Election Issues 2014 , News , Pensions , Special Mayoral Election 2014 Fact Check: Alvarez’s Pension Reform Plan by Lisa Halverstadt September 23, 2013 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “I’ve also worked with my colleagues to say yes together. Making sure that we have things like the five-year labor agreement, which by the way was something I presented even before Proposition B as a way to save millions of dollars for our city,” mayoral candidate and Councilman David Alvarez said at a Sept. 20 debate. Determination: Mostly True Analysis: City Councilman David Alvarez has less than three years in elected office under his belt so he’s trying to emphasize his big ideas and accomplishments during that relatively short time as he campaigns for mayor. One of the ideas he’s repeatedly mentioned is his push for five-year labor deals long before former Mayor Bob Filner inked those cost-saving agreements with the city’s unions earlier this year. At a debate last week, Alvarez claimed he championed the unprecedented labor deals before voters approved Proposition B , a pension reform initiative that drew its most significant savings from five-year pensionable pay freezes for city employees. Alvarez made a similar comment in a recent U-T San Diego Q-and-A . “Being able to reach consensus on some very difficult issues — retiree health care, a labor agreement this year, which, by the way, I proposed in January of the year before. That’s what I was proposing, a five-year (pensionable) pay freeze on employees to achieve those savings,” he told the U-T. Alvarez’s statements merit some vetting because pension reform and the path to five-year labor deals will likely come up throughout the campaign. It’s crucial voters have a clear idea of the role Alvarez, a Democrat with an endorsement from the region’s most powerful labor group , played in process. Years after San Diego earned its “Enron by the Sea” moniker, city Republicans and business leaders struggled to agree on the best approach to reform. In 2011, they united behind a single measure known as Prop. B, which aimed to save $963 million over 30 years by freezing the portion of city workers’ salaries that factors into their pension payouts. The initiative also called for the city to switch to 401(k) plans for most new city workers, a move projected to cost $13 million over 30 years. Supporters later gathered more than 115,000 signatures and by late January 2012, the City Council voted to place the initiative on the ballot that June. Months earlier, then-mayoral candidate Filner floated a pension plan of his own. It included a roughly $125,000 cap on annual pension payouts, a new formula for paying the city’s annual pension bill and unspecified concessions from city staffers that didn’t include 401(k) plans. Then-City Council President Tony Young said he’d be open to a City Council vote on a competing pension reform measure but Filner’s proposal never materialized. So days after the City Council voted to put the Republicans’ plan on the ballot, Alvarez emerged with his own policy. It was almost identical to Prop. B with major exceptions: It nixed 401(k) plans and instead capped annual pension payouts at $99,999 for new hires. In a memo outlining his proposal, Alvarez argued his plan was superior to Prop. B. After all, he wrote, it would allow the city to reap the savings associated with pension reform without the costs. “My proposed ‘Cap & Freeze’ pension reform measure … will achieve significant savings without the millions of dollars it will cost the city to implement a new 401(k) style retirement plan,” Alvarez wrote. Like the Republicans, Alvarez relied on a five-year pensionable pay freeze to deliver those savings. Both plans raised legal questions, in part because state law bars the city from implementing such a freeze without negotiating with its unions so the savings associated with either measure would require long-term deals with city employees. But Alvarez’s plan never made it to City Council because Young, a fellow Democrat, refused to allow a City Council vote on Alvarez’s measure. “This is a pretty important issue, and putting something on the ballot in three weeks without being fully vetted would be a problem,” Young told 10 News at the time. Voters later approved Prop. B, the measure promoted by city Republicans. Almost exactly a year later, Alvarez and other city leaders celebrated the unanimous approval of six five-year labor deals that would allow the city to reap the budget savings the initiative sought. Now Alvarez, the mayoral candidate, claims he touted the idea long before those deals were signed. That’s accurate. Alvarez did propose another pension reform initiative that relied on five-year labor agreements to accomplish its savings. But there’s a crucial nuance missing in Alvarez’s statement:  He officially proposed his plan 10 months after Republicans coalesced behind a measure that would later become Prop. B and, in fact, his version was almost an exact replica of that proposal. Only Alvarez’s sections on 401(k) and the pension cap varied. There’s no evidence Alvarez would have proposed five-year labor agreements without pensionable pay increases if Prop. B hadn’t provided a roadmap for reform. Alvarez’s claims don’t acknowledge that fact so his statement is mostly true. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. WHAT TO READ NEXT City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Everything You Need to Know About Water Vending Machines Encinitas Had the Only North County Sales Tax Measure That Failed. This May Be Why. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: David Alvarez , enron by the sea , Fact Check: Mostly True , five-year labor deals , Mayoral Fact Check , Pension Reform , Prop. B , Proposition B Lisa Halverstadt Lisa is a senior investigative reporter who digs into some of San Diego's biggest challenges including homelessness, city real estate debacles, the region's... More by Lisa Halverstadt Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack