Update: What's Illegal in Schools | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Education , Fact Check , News Update: What’s Illegal in Schools by Keegan Kyle February 1, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: Community colleges can’t legally charge high school students tuition, Joe Radding, who oversees the state Department of Education’s college preparation program, said in an interview with voiceofsandiego.org on Jan. 9. Determination: False Analysis: Earlier this month, mayoral candidate Bonnie Dumanis received a False rating because her education plan incorrectly claimed that state laws prohibit high school students from attending community college classes. Learning Curve Your biweekly update on the state of education in San Diego County schools.​ SUBSCRIBE Browse all newsletters at vosd.org/newsletters It turns out that our Fact Check incorrectly described state laws, too. The mistake doesn’t change the inaccuracy of what Dumanis claimed or our rating, but certainly merits its own explanation. When we determined Dumanis’ statement to be incorrect, her campaign pointed out that barriers still exist that make it difficult for high schoolers to take college classes. School districts can lose state funding when students don’t spend a certain amount of time at district-run classes. Community colleges can lose tuition funding by enrolling high school students for free. But why on earth would a community college enroll high school students for free? Joe Radding, who oversees the state Department of Education’s college preparation program, told me it was illegal for the colleges to charge them tuition. After we published the Fact Check, a reader contacted me and questioned the accuracy of Radding’s description. She said a local community college had recently charged her teenage son tuition for two semesters. So I asked Radding to revisit his statement. Either he was wrong or the woman had been illegally charged by a local community college. Radding called me Monday, said he’d been mistaken and repeatedly apologized for any confusion. After having staff conduct legal research, he said community colleges do have discretion to charge high school students tuition. We wrote this Fact Check to correct the record and explain what happened. Though Radding made a mistake, we still appreciate that he shared his time and helped us examine Dumanis’ inaccurate claim. We certainly hope this Fact Check does not discourage anyone from helping us with Fact Checks in the future. Everyone makes occasional mistakes — Dumanis, Radding and us. The important step is simply correcting those mistakes publicly. We’ve corrected our Fact Check of Dumanis and noted the changes at the bottom of the story. I also wanted to thank the reader who contacted me and spurred us to revisit this issue. Thank you for holding us accountable, too. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bonnie Dumanis , Community Colleges , Fact Check: False , Joe Radding , Mayor 2012 , San Diego Schools Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack