San Diego's Foreclosure Hotspots: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , News San Diego’s Foreclosure Hotspots: Fact Check by Keegan Kyle January 19, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “There are 57,000 San Diegans losing their homes,” Lorena Gonzalez, head of the San Diego-Imperial Counties Labor Council, said Jan. 11. Determination: True Analysis: At his State of the City address last week, Mayor Jerry Sanders outlined his priorities for his final year in office — a laundry list of familiar topics to San Diegans. Sanders pledged to present a structurally balanced budget and push major building projects like a new Chargers stadium and an expanded Convention Center before leaving. He repeatedly touted success during his tenure, but ignored many of the deep cuts to core city services. In an interview with KPBS following the speech, Gonzalez criticized Sanders for skipping a different topic. “There are 57,000 San Diegans losing their homes and we didn’t hear anything about how we are going to fix that disaster,” she said. Gonzalez argued the city’s housing slump should be a greater priority for the mayor. We decided to Fact Check the number of lost homes since Gonzalez used it to accentuate a problem she wants the mayor to tackle. First, it’s important to put parameters around Gonzalez’s claim. In an email, Gonzalez said she was speaking about people who’d had their homes foreclosed on since 2008 or will have their homes foreclosed this year. It’s also necessary to recognize a distinction between a foreclosure and actually losing your home. Foreclosure often leads to losing a home but not always. People can get out of foreclosure and still keep their homes. Gonzalez said she got the number from a June 2011 study by the Center on Policy Initiatives that estimated the number of foreclosures in the city. We tracked down the study . It pulled historical foreclosure data from RealtyTrac, a real estate firm widely followed by news organizations, and then projected the number of foreclosures this year based on past trends. The study concluded 56,689 homes had been in foreclosure since 2008 or will be in foreclosure this year, which backs up Gonzalez’s claim of 57,000. The center’s study also showed how foreclosures disproportionally affect central and southern neighborhoods, where some of the city’s poorest residents live. Most zip codes south of Interstate 8 had significantly more foreclosures, as illustrated below. Because Gonzalez accurately cited the number of foreclosures, as estimated by the Center on Policy Initiatives, we’ve rated the statement True. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Unrelated to determining the accuracy of Gonzalez’ claim, I called mayoral spokeswoman Rachel Laing and asked why the mayor hadn’t talked about foreclosures in his annual address. She said a city task force addressed the issue three years ago and the mayor feels his last year is best focused on other projects. “You have to pick and choose and when writing the State of the City,” Laing said, “it’s priorities. I’m not sure anything’s happened (related to foreclosures) in the last year that warrants being called out in a half-hour speech.” I asked Gonzalez what she wants the mayor to do about foreclosures. She said he should push a City Council proposal aimed at reducing troubled vacant properties and push divesting city and pension funds from irresponsible banks ( like Los Angeles ). “These are just initial thoughts,” Gonzalez wrote. “Unemployment, poverty and foreclosures have ballooned since Sanders took office and he has done very little recognize or address these important issues.” Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He writes about public safety and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: business finance , Center On Policy Initiatives , City Services , Economics , Fact Check: True , Foreclosure , Jerry Sanders , Kpbs , Lorena Gonzalez , Mortgage , Rachel Laing , Real Estate , Real Property Law , San Diego , San Diego-imperial Counties Labor Council Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack