A Tall Tale About San Diego's Trees: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , News A Tall Tale About San Diego’s Trees: Fact Check by Lisa Halverstadt March 12, 2013 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “San Diego has more trees than any other city in the nation,” ABC 10 News reported in a March 1 story. Determination: False Analysis: ABC 10 News recently declared that San Diego has a natural claim to fame: the city with more trees than any other in the nation. The March 1 story highlighted a mapping website that allows San Diegans to upload information about local trees. It also provides estimates on how those trees reduce carbon and improve the region’s air quality, among other impacts. The goal is to urge cities to emphasize greater awareness about the area’s tree population and its environmental benefits. Image courtesy of ABC 10 News The claim quickly set off our fact-checking radar. Sure, San Diego has lots of trees but so do plenty of other cities. The claim presented a chance to learn more about how San Diego’s tree population compares with that of other cities. We consulted several experts who have studied urban forests. None could vouch for San Diego’s status as the urban tree capital of the United States. U.S. Forest Service researcher David Nowak has spent years calculating the number of trees across the nation. He said he’d never considered San Diego among the nation’s front-runners though he stopped short of any conclusions. “I don’t think we can confirm which city has the most because we don’t have data from all cities,” he said. By Nowak’s count, Atlanta boasts the nation’s largest urban tree population. In 1996, Nowak’s team used a complex projection model to determine that the southern city had about 9.4 million trees. In 2008, they traveled to Los Angeles and calculated roughly 6 million trees there. Michael Palat, chairman of the San Diego Regional Urban Forests Council , was skeptical that San Diego could compete with those cities. He said San Diego’s arid climate presents a challenge for the city’s tree population. Most trees require watering to survive in their infancy and not many of San Diego’s trees sprout up on their own, said Palat, who supervises the San Diego region for West Coast Arborists, a company that inventories trees in cities in California, Arizona and Nevada. The company has not conducted a count in San Diego. Palat and others we consulted weren’t aware of any formal, citywide tree counts in San Diego. They could only recall a July 2003 report that relied on high-resolution digital maps to determine which percentage of San Diego and some parts of San Diego County were covered with trees. That’s a different measure than the number of trees in the city. The study, conducted by the U.S. Forest Service and the nonprofit American Forests , made some city-specific assessments. At the time, about 7 percent of San Diego was covered by trees. By that measure, San Diego’s tree population is not too impressive. A 2010 U.S. Forest Service report on the status of the nation’s urban forests found that up to 80 percent of urban areas in some of the nation’s counties are covered by tree canopies. Those with the largest percentage of tree cover tended to be in eastern states. “We cannot, as a city, say that is true,” spokesman Bill Harris said. “It is not, by our calculation.” The city does keep an inventory of roughly 250,000 trees along its streets and sidewalks, which includes more than 220,000 shade trees and 30,000 palms, but there’s no record of trees on private property. We informed 10 News reporter Natasha Zouves of some of our findings and she emailed to say that Robin Rivet, the arborist who helped create the tree-mapping site, was the one who told her San Diego had more trees than other cities across the country. Rivet, who serves on the city’s Community Forest Advisory Board , disputed that. “We are actually one of the most underperforming cities (in terms of) trees in the nation,” Rivet said. “It couldn’t be further from the truth.” Rivet later contacted 10 News, and the story was updated. It no longer kicks off with the claim that San Diego has the largest tree population in U.S. Rivet and others on the Community Forest Advisory Board do hope to make the city more tree-friendly after years of cutbacks. The board has urged the city to reinvest in its urban forestry program and last month, the city accepted a $75,000 grant from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection to implement an urban forest management plan. That will involve getting input from the community, reviewing the tree-specific guidelines the city set out in its 2008 general plan and developing a schedule of actions, said Anne Fege, chair of the Community Forest Advisory Board. The group hopes to work with a local university or outside group to tally the city’s tree population but Fege and Rivet were adamant that process won’t reveal San Diego has more trees than any other city in the nation. The evidence was overwhelming: San Diego can’t claim to be the nation’s most tree-covered city, so the statement in the 10 News story is “false.” If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Lisa Halverstadt is the newest reporter at Voice of San Diego. Know of something she should check out? You can contact her directly at lisa.halverstadt@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.325.0528. Follow @lisahalverstadt Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Abc , Bill Harris , City Spokesman , environmental design , Fact Check: False , San Diego County , Science/Environment , u.s. forest service Lisa Halverstadt Lisa is a senior investigative reporter who digs into some of San Diego's biggest challenges including homelessness, city real estate debacles, the region's... More by Lisa Halverstadt Join the Conversation 1 Comment Chris Bickford says: June 1, 2022 at 1:55 pm Thanks for info, will pursue myself the tree #s Loading... Reply Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Leave a comment Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack %d