Bill Clinton's Mistake About UC San Diego: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Education , Fact Check , News Bill Clinton’s Mistake About UC San Diego: Fact Check by Keegan Kyle June 19, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “Their acceptance rate was as low as Harvard and Yale this year,” former President Bill Clinton said about UC San Diego during a June 5 interview with CNBC. Determination: False Analysis: Clinton gathered global leaders and thinkers at a conference in Chicago earlier this month to address some of the world’s biggest challenges: poverty, environment, education and health care. Learning Curve Your biweekly update on the state of education in San Diego County schools.​ SUBSCRIBE Browse all newsletters at vosd.org/newsletters The speakers included San Diego Mayor Jerry Sanders, who discussed the city’s growth in biotechnology and clean technology. In an interview with CNBC about the event, Clinton said Sanders, a Republican, had successfully worked alongside Democrats here to nurture small businesses. “What’s working in America are these cooperative clusters like we were talking about San Diego,” Clinton said, according to a transcript posted online . “San Diego has become the human genome research capital of America.” Clinton backed up the notoriety by listing prominent science centers, such as the J. Craig Venter Institute and Qualcomm. He also described the amount of interest in attending UC San Diego as akin to Ivy League schools. “There were 66,000 applications for the freshmen class at the University of California, San Diego. Their acceptance rate was as low as Harvard and Yale this year,” he said. But that’s not true, according to a survey of college admissions by The New York Times. Harvard and Yale accepted about 6 percent and 7 percent of applicants this year. UCSD accepted nearly 38 percent. We tried reaching Clinton for comment through conference organizers, but a representative did not respond before our deadline. However, UC San Diego spokesman Jeff Gattas provided some insight into why the mistake might’ve happened. Clinton could’ve mixed up the university’s acceptance rate (the number of applicants who get in) with its enrollment rate (the number of approved applicants who actually enroll in classes). Most people accepted to UC San Diego decide not to enroll. They might end up choosing another school or none at all. That’s different than Harvard and Yale, where most decide to enroll after their acceptance. UC San Diego isn’t as selective as those Ivy League schools, which is what Clinton suggested. UC San Diego’s freshman enrollment rate is much closer to Harvard and Yale, however. Last fall, UC San Diego enrolled about 6 percent of applicants. The other schools enrolled about 5 percent, according to statistics from the Times and The Princeton Review . The mix-up could explain why Clinton described acceptance rates as equal among UC San Diego, Harvard and Yale, but it doesn’t change the inaccuracy of the comparison or our rating. The statement was False. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bill Clinton , Biotechnology , Cnbc , Fact Check: False , Harvard University , Ivy League , J. Craig Venter , J. Craig Venter Institute , Jerry Sanders , Qualcomm , Uc San Diego , Ucsd Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack