Fact Check: Supervisors' $2 Million Fund | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check Fact Check: Supervisors’ $2 Million Fund by Summer Polacek April 23, 2010 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “They use that fund ($2 million for each Supervisor every year) to give out taxpayer money to their favorite people, organizations or causes,” the ballot argument, Yes on B, March 27. Determination: Barely True Analysis: In June, voters will decide on Proposition B, which would limit county supervisors to serving two terms, or eight years in office. Yes on B, a group supporting the measure, focused much of its ballot argument on complaints about the current supervisors. In particular, it zeroed in on gripes about the supervisors’ use of discretionary funds . Over the years, county supervisors have doled out grants from a fund now called the Neighborhood Reinvestment Program. They take requests from nonprofits around the county, and their decisions are rubber stamped by colleagues. But they decided, March 23, to cut the program in half as part of budget cuts. Instead of $2 million, each supervisor will have $1 million starting in the 2011 fiscal year. Does that cutback make the $2 million figure used in the ballot argument false? The statement says (emphasis mine) “they use that fund…” I called Mat Kostrinsky, the campaign manager for Yes on B. He called the statement true because the cutback won’t technically go into effect until the end of the fiscal year this summer. We decided Kostrinsky may be technically correct for now, but the statement left out some serious context — context that may significantly alter the impression the claim left. And that makes the statement: barely true. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? — SCOTT LEWIS WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Fact Check: Barely True Summer Polacek Summer Polacek was formerly the Development Manager at Voice of San Diego. More by Summer Polacek Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack