DeMaio First to Cross Border? Fact Check TV | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , Fact Check TV , News , Video DeMaio First to Cross Border? Fact Check TV by Keegan Kyle September 17, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . City Councilman Carl DeMaio recently crossed the border and declared he was the first mayoral candidate to ever visit Baja California during the election season. So was DeMaio telling the truth? In this edition of Fact Check TV, Scott Lewis reviews the archives of San Diego’s election history and explains whether the claim was true or false. Lewis also discusses the latest shakeup in San Diego’s media landscape. Last week, hotelier and U-T San Diego owner Doug Manchester bought the county’s second-largest newspaper , the North County Times. New episodes of Fact Check TV appear on NBC 7 San Diego every Friday during the 6 p.m. newscast and our website the following Monday. What should we feature on our next episode? If you’re hungry for more Fact Check TV, you might also enjoy these recent episodes: • Fewer Airplanes Using Lindbergh Field • The Segment Formerly Known as Fact Check TV • Filner’s Airport Incident A quick side note: This segment shifted toward a new format two weeks ago and was renamed The Weekly Facts. We have decided to continue using the new format but return to the segment’s original name, Fact Check TV. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Gentrification Is Coming for South San Diego County Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Baja California , Carl Demaio , Doug Manchester , Mayor 2012 , North County Times Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack