Fact Check: Cleaner Water than Orange County? | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , News , Science/Environment Fact Check: Cleaner Water than Orange County? by Keegan Kyle August 2, 2011 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: San Diego’s “recycled H20 would be more purified than Orange County,” City Councilman Kevin Faulconer tweeted July 7. Determination: Mostly True Analysis: Last year, the City Council approved $11.8 million to study purifying sewage and adding it to San Diego’s drinkable water supply. The city began isolated tests of the process this year and Faulconer tweeted during a tour of the treatment facility July 7. “SD recycled H20 would be more purified than Orange County. As u can see, SD takes water purification process seriously,” he wrote, sending out a picture of the pipe-layered facility. Orange County began boosting its drinkable water supply with purified sewage three years before San Diego’s City Council approved to study a similar system here. San Diego’s proposed treatment process is based on Orange County’s but they are slightly different. In Orange County, purified sewage is pumped into an underground aquifer and then put through additional treatment to make it drinkable. In San Diego, purified sewage would be pumped into a reservoir and then be put through more treatment to make it drinkable. True to Faulconer’s tweet, the recycled water leaving San Diego’s sewage facility would be cleaner than the water now leaving Orange County’s. The sewage in San Diego runs through a third round of tiny filters that remove even more particles than in Orange County. But there’s an important caveat in Faulconer’s comparison. The end product — the water you drink and bathe in — wouldn’t be measurably better in San Diego. The final treatment process that makes water drinkable is essentially the same in both places and purifies water to the same quality level. Wait, but what about those additional tiny filters in San Diego? As far as the quality of drinkable water, they don’t matter. The filters may reduce the amount of work that needs to be done to make San Diego’s water drinkable, but both systems keep working until they have the same product. Join thousands of San Diegans who get the day’s news in their inboxes every morning. Get the Morning Report now . Both Orange County and San Diego water officials agreed. San Diego’s purified sewage would be cleaner after the first treatment process but water quality would likely be equal at the end. (They don’t know for sure since San Diego just began its pilot study.) Our definition for Mostly True says the statement is accurate but contains an important nuance. Faulconer’s statement fits that definition. He accurately said that San Diego’s purified sewage would be cleaner but didn’t explain how the rest of the water purification process would even out the comparison. But if you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Be sure to include your reasoning. For more on San Diego’s purified sewage debate, check out this handy guide by my colleague Rob Davis, this previous Fact Check about the costs of purified sewage and this breakdown of the treatment process. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He writes about public safety and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668 and follow him on Twitter: twitter.com/keegankyle . WHAT TO READ NEXT Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Environmental Engineering , Fact Check: Mostly True , Kevin Faulconer , Orange County , Reclaimed Water , San Diego , Science/Environment , Sewage , Sustainability , Water Pollution , Water Supply Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack