Fact Check: Car Theft Rankings Drop | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , Government , News Fact Check: Car Theft Rankings Drop by Keegan Kyle October 7, 2011 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “It wasn’t long ago that we were No. 3 in the nation for car thieves and now we’re down to 15,” District Attorney and mayoral candidate Bonnie Dumanis said during a Fox 5 interview Sept. 15. Determination: True Analysis: In September, Dumanis announced 33 indictments following a six-month undercover investigation. The felony charges included vehicle theft, burglary, stolen property and weapons violations, and she touted the case as example of local law enforcement’s crackdown on car thieves. “It wasn’t long ago that we were No. 3 in the nation for car thieves and now we’re down to 15,” Dumanis said. “They’re doing their jobs.” The rankings she cited accurately reflect a study by the National Insurance Crime Bureau, a nonprofit dedicated to fighting insurance fraud. Once a year, the organization takes a snapshot of stolen car reports and compares metropolitan areas across the country. In 2007, the organization found that vehicle thefts only happened more often in Las Vegas and Modesto, Calif. than San Diego. Last year, it found thefts occurred more often in 14 other places. But what’s particularly interesting about the ranking is the data source. The organization has special access to a law enforcement database of stolen vehicle reports. It’s not the same publicly available data that law enforcement officials like Dumanis most often cite to describe crime trends. The public database shows a similar decline of vehicle theft in recent years but doesn’t portray San Diego as once being a standout in the national picture. Its ranking fell from 8th to 27th in the last three years. Why different rankings? Though the two databases are similar, they don’t cover the exact same timeframe or receive reports from all the same agencies. Try to think of crime totals like pictures. They describe what police know at one moment in time and new information can change the snapshot. A person may report a stolen car one day but then police find out the car wasn’t actually stolen a week later. The two databases represent two different snapshots in time. The organization took its picture of stolen vehicle reports in May this year. The publicly available data was reported at the end of last year. Secondly, not all law enforcement agencies provide crime information for the public database, which can affect area totals. Participation is voluntary. More agencies do, however, use the other database to report stolen vehicles. That one’s a real-time database that police across the country use to figure out whether a vehicle’s been reported stolen. However, these variations don’t take away the accuracy of Dumanis’ statement, which mirrors the rankings reported by the National Insurance Crime Bureau. That’s why we’ve rated the statement True. The different rankings don’t change the downward trend Dumanis described. San Diego area law enforcement reported 408 stolen vehicles per 100,000 residents last year or about half as many as three years earlier. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He writes about public safety and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bonnie Dumanis , Fact Check: True , fox 5 Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack