Food Stamps' Big Growth: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , Government , News Food Stamps’ Big Growth: Fact Check by Keegan Kyle February 13, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “In the last two years we’ve (had) a 65 percent increase, and from November to December last year, in one month, we saw a 9 percent increase,” county Supervisor Ron Roberts said in an interview with KPBS Feb. 6. Determination: False Analysis: Roberts appeared on KPBS last week to preview his State of the County address and provide an update on efforts to expand the county’s food stamps program. County leaders have come under intense scrutiny in recent years because advocates for the poor say the county doesn’t provide social services to enough people. One survey, for example, consistently ranks San Diego last in the nation among metro counties in providing food stamps to eligible people. And it fell at or near the bottom for connecting the poor with several key aid programs beyond simply food stamps. County leaders have approved several proposals aimed at making the benefits more accessible. On KPBS, Roberts said the county has hired more employees and created new systems to grow food stamps participation, and cited a couple statistics to back it up. “In the last two years we’ve (had) a 65 percent increase, and from November to December last year, in one month, we saw a 9 percent increase,” Roberts said. “We’re not at the end but we’re clearly going in the right direction.” Nick Macchione, director of the county’s Health of Human Services Agency, cited similar figures in May last year to describe the program’s growth. At the time, the data supported his claim that food stamps participation had increased by 70 percent. I wondered whether that pace of expansion has continued through this week and the data also supports Roberts’ figures. In fact, it doesn’t. Roberts’ two-year comparison is long outdated and his one-month comparison is inflated. Though enrollment has continued to climb since Macchione made a similar claim, the rate of growth has slowed substantially. The graphic below encompasses the county’s most recent available data and illustrates a two-year comparison for each month. It’s unclear why the rate has slowed precipitously since late 2010. Reached last week, a spokeswoman for the county’s Health and Human Services Agency only said it coincided with a decrease in unemployment. The county’s most recent data shows 245,000 people are enrolled in the food stamps program — 43 percent more than two years ago. By saying 65 percent, Roberts essentially overstated the increase by more than 30,000 people. Between November and December last year, the number of people enrolled in the program grew by .9 percent — not 9 percent as Roberts claimed. In recent years, the number of people has never spiked by more than 3.3 percent in one month. Through a spokesman, Roberts acknowledged Thursday that the statistics he cited on KPBS were inaccurate. He hadn’t checked for an updated figure on the two-year comparison and missed the decimal place on the one-month comparison. “He goofed up,” spokesman Tim McClain said. Because Roberts’ statistics don’t accurately represent how participation in the food stamps program has changed over time, we’ve rated it False. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Fact Check: False , Federal Assistance In The United States , Food , Food Stamp Program , Food Stamps , Kpbs , Nick Macchione , Ron Roberts , San Diego , Social Services , Tim Mcclain , United States Department Of Agriculture Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack