Fact Check: Ricardo Flores' Work-Politics Balancing Act | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Politics Fact Check: Ricardo Flores’ Work-Politics Balancing Act by Ry Rivard November 1, 2016 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement : “Ricardo Flores Takes Our Money. Doesn’t Show Up For Work.” – A campaign mailer sent by Georgette Gomez attacking her opponent in the City Council District 9 race, Ricardo Flores. Determination : Misleading Analysis : Ricardo Flores is chief of staff to current District 9 Councilwoman Marti Emerald, who is not running for another term. He’s running to replace Emerald and has her endorsement. Georgette Gomez, his opponent, says in a mail piece that he’s not doing his current job in Emerald’s office yet is still getting paid. Among other things, the mailer says, “We pay him $116,000 a year, but Flores skips work nearly every day” to campaign. The implication is clear: He’s campaigning on taxpayers’ dime. Starting this summer, Flores began working half time as Emerald’s chief of staff, his campaign said and a city official confirmed. That means he works 20-hour weeks instead of 40-hour weeks. Gomez’s campaign is trying to highlight an irony: In the primary, Emerald endorsed him by saying, “Ricardo Flores is on the job, every day, building stronger communities.” Gomez campaign spokesman Dan Rottenstreich said it’s only fair to show how much work Flores is missing if “his entire campaign is premised on his title, his status and his experience at City Hall.” But Gomez’s campaign goes too far by implying Flores is out campaigning at taxpayer expense while missing work. That’s because Flores has taken a corresponding pay cut, so he’s also taking home half as much pay — about $58,000 if he worked the full year at his current hours, not $116,000. Deanneka Flores, Flores’ wife and campaign manager, said the mailer’s intent was to “distort our sacrifices.” As the campaign was getting under way last year, Flores did take paid leave time for campaign-related events. So he was not at work and was getting paid, but he was using his own vacation days to do so. This January, he began taking leave without pay for all activities related to the campaign. Beginning this summer, after he got enough votes in the primary to advance to the November runoff, he began to work half-time. Traditionally, candidates who already hold office or work in government must be careful about blurring the lines between their political activities on the campaign trail and their civic duties as public servants. Flores’ decision to cut back his work hours is a way to manage those two tasks, as was the unpaid leave he took earlier this year and paid vacation days he took last year. Voters must judge if he made the right call – maybe they think Flores never should have taken vacation days to campaign, should work a full day and then campaign on the side or might as well just leave his job entirely to campaign rather than work half-time at a high-profile job. But we find Gomez went too far in implying that Flores is drawing his full salary while missing work. Gomez, for her part, has taken a leave of absence from her job as the associate director of the Environmental Health Coalition. Flores should rightly face more scrutiny, since his job is paid for directly by taxpayers and hers is not. But her approach shows just how time-consuming even a local campaign can be. We find a claim misleading when it takes an element of truth and badly distorts it or exaggerates it, giving a deceptive impression. The Gomez campaign argues it broke up the sentences and punctuated the mailer in just such a way so that it’s all true. That doesn’t mean it isn’t misleading. While it may be fair to criticize Flores for cutting back his work hours while campaigning, he’s not drawing his full salary while doing so. WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: City Council , District 9 , Georgette Gomez , Ricardo Flores Ry Rivard Ry Rivard was formerly a reporter for Voice of San Diego. He wrote about water and power. More by Ry Rivard Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack