Fact Check: (Still) Not-So-Instant Pension Savings | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in City Council , Fact Check , Government , Kevin Faulconer , News , Pensions , San Diego City Finances Fact Check: (Still) Not-So-Instant Pension Savings by Lisa Halverstadt May 21, 2014 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “As vice president of the San Diego County Taxpayers Association, Chris Cate was one of the leading drafters of Proposition B, the comprehensive pension reform that saved San Diego taxpayers nearly $1 billion,” Mayor Kevin Faulconer said in a campaign mailer supported by an independent expenditure committee backed by the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and the California Restaurant Association. Statement: “Lorie Zapf helped pass financial reforms, saving … $1,000,000,000. Over $1 billion saved so we can invest back into our neighborhoods,” a mailer for City Councilwoman Lorie Zapf’s campaign said. Analysis: Pension reform supporters just can’t resist saying that Proposition B is saving a lot money. They have said again and again that the city has new cash to fill potholes and build fire stations thanks to savings associated with Proposition B , which voters approved in 2012. But it doesn’t. The latest factual offenses appear in campaign mailers for District 6 City Council candidate Chris Cate and City Councilwoman Lorie Zapf, who is now vying for the District 2 seat. Both backed the pension overhaul. Mailers distributed by Zapf’s campaign and a pro-Cate group backed by the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and the California Restaurant Association both imply the $1 billion in savings projected along with Prop. B has already arrived. (The savings comes from the measure’s push to freeze the portion of city workers’ salaries that factors into their pensions. That freeze was negotiated last summer.) The mailers are leaving out an important fact: Past analyses found those savings would come over three decades, not immediately. The expected $1 billion in savings isn’t guaranteed, either. Other pension-related decisions affect whether and when they’ll come to pass. For instance, a November pension board vote forced the city to divert some of the more immediate (and relatively meager ) savings associated with Prop. B toward the pension bill rather than city services. Many things can change in 30 years – and we won’t attempt to predict how they might – but one thing is certain: The city has yet to save anywhere close to $1 billion thanks to Prop. B. John Hoy, a consultant working for the pro-Cate PAC that produced the mailer featuring Faulconer’s quote, said his group pulled an incorrect transcript of a Lincoln Club-backed video ad and mistakenly quoted the mayor saying the city is already enjoying Prop. B savings.  (Indeed, in the Lincoln Club’s ad, Faulconer says the measure saves nearly $1 billion. The Lincoln Club has since updated the transcript posted along with its ad for Cate .) A Faulconer spokesman declined to comment. Zapf campaign manager Sara Kamiab stood by the claim in Zapf’s mailer. “As far as voters are concerned, when they overwhelmingly approved comprehensive pension reform in 2012, they saved the city $1 billion,” Kamiab said, adding that Zapf has worked to ensure the city gets the advertised savings. Voters may expect those savings, but that doesn’t mean they’ve materialized yet. The city didn’t get an immediate $1 billion in the bank to spend on crumbling sidewalks or new police officers. That makes the mailers’ claims misleading. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Chris Cate , City Council , Fact Check: Misleading , Kevin Faulconer , Lorie Zapf , Pension , Proposition B Lisa Halverstadt Lisa is a senior investigative reporter who digs into some of San Diego's biggest challenges including homelessness, city real estate debacles, the region's... More by Lisa Halverstadt Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack