Fact Check: Nancy Graham's Outlandish Claims | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , News Fact Check: Nancy Graham’s Outlandish Claims by Rob Davis September 10, 2010 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “I have been investigated up and down by almost every possible agency, to no avail, reported my income and paid my taxes,” former CCDC president Nancy Graham said in a comment posted on the Palm Beach (Fla.) Post’s website this week. Determination: Huckster Propaganda Analysis: Graham left San Diego in 2008 after we raised questions about her financial disclosures and ties to downtown developers. In her statement to the Florida newspaper , Graham asserted that she reported her income — a central issue in a scandal that fully unfolded after she left. While at CCDC, Graham received millions in profits from a private deal she’d done in Florida. The Ethics Commission, which recently fined Graham $32,000 for violating city ethics rules, concluded that the income — more than $3 million altogether — should’ve prohibited Graham from negotiating a downtown hotel deal that would’ve benefited that company, Lennar Corp. She never reported the income in her annual conflict of interest disclosure forms, which all high-profile public officials complete under penalty of perjury. Graham’s attorney, Paul Pfingst, argues that she didn’t have to report the income because it came from an out-of-state company. Whether she had to report it or not, she didn’t disclose the $3 million she received while at CCDC from a Florida company whose sister company owned land downtown here. Claiming she reported income — income that disqualified her from being able to negotiate a major hotel deal — is simply not true. The only public place she reported receiving money from her private deal was in a sworn deposition she gave in Florida in 2007. But those annual conflict disclosure forms here contained no mention of it. CCDC’s conflict-of-interest code, which outlines what has to be reported, says all sources of income from developers doing business downtown have to be disclosed. Graham pleaded no contest in 2009 to one misdemeanor count of failing to accurately complete those forms. (A no-contest plea is not an admission of guilt but is treated like a conviction.) Graham’s false comment to the paper came while saying she wouldn’t run for West Palm Beach mayor again, as had been rumored there. Throughout her statement, she made several false claims about well-established facts in an attempt to fight back against what she said were “attempts to ruin my credibility.” But in her explanation, she repeatedly misrepresented facts, casting herself in a better light. And these are facts that you could reasonably expect her to know. That makes the totality of her comments Huckster Propaganda. Suggesting that investigations into Graham were “to no avail” is also false. While the FBI investigated Graham and never charged her, the city’s Ethics Commission investigated Graham and fined her $32,000 for violating city ethics laws 18 times. The City Attorney’s Office also charged her with five misdemeanors; she pleaded no contest to one, was fined $3,300 and agreed not to lobby or run for office in California for three years. Graham also claimed in her newspaper comment that the Ethics Commission’s full board “in fact found that while there was a technical violation, I did not do anything intentionally or knowingly, had no contact with Lennar, and at most was negligent for not checking to see whether a conflict of interest existed.” That’s false. The full Ethics Commission board never drew such a conclusion. A three-member panel did say Graham had not profited by influencing the hotel deal here. But in recommending a fine , it didn’t reference whether she’d been deceitful or not. It said Graham was “a sophisticated, experienced government official, and should have been aware of the high risks posed by her improper participation in a large scale project.” When the commission fined Graham Aug. 12, two of its five board members said she had been deceitful or intentionally concealed information. The commission fined her more than it’d originally proposed because of that. “The record does show an attempt to deceive,” Commissioner John O’Neill said in August. “I’m convinced that someplace along the line she shifted from accidental to intent,” Commissioner Bud Wetzler said then. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? Please contact Rob Davis directly at rob.davis@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.325.0529 and follow him on Twitter: twitter.com/robwdavis . WHAT TO READ NEXT Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Ccdc , Centre City Development Corp. , Ethics Commission , Fact Check: Huckster Propaganda , john o'neill , Nancy Graham , Palm Beach Post Rob Davis Rob Davis was formerly a senior reporter for Voice of San Diego. More by Rob Davis Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack