Glass Found Has Been Found in Huggies Wipes-Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Warnings Glass Found Has Been Found in Huggies Wipes-Unproven! Glass Found Has Been Found in Huggies Wipes-Unproven! / Warnings / By Rich Buhler & Staff / August 24, 2015 Glass Found Has Been Found in Huggies Wipes- Unproven! Summary of eRumor: Shards of glass have been found in Huggies baby wipes. The Truth: Right now, there’s no proof that shards of glass have been found in Huggies baby wipes, but the company and federal agencies are still investigating those reports. A number of parents have reported finding glass inside new packages of Huggies baby wipes. One mother posted a video on YouTube that appeared to show glass in a pouch of Huggies baby wipes. In the video — which had been viewed nearly 200,000 times within days — the women opens the package of wipes, holds one of the shards on her finger and says, “those little things are sharp”: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T0rDoXHBoVo The company quickly denied reports of glass in Huggies baby wipes in an official statement : No, we do not use glass in the manufacture of our wipes.  Generally speaking, we make our product by combining a blend of fibers. Rarely, but on occasion, when those fibers combine together while being formed, they create a shiny particle, similar to what was found by this consumer. Huggies said that no injuries had been reported, and its wipes were safe to use. The company did add, however, that it was investigating the original complaint and engaging with other parents who had voiced concerns. A spokesperson for the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said via Twitter that the commission was “looking into reports of glass in baby wipes.” Consumers can file complaints about Huggies baby wipes at safeproducts.gov. We’ll post new information about this developing story here, so check back for updates. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x