How the Pension Initiative Saves $1 Billion and $0: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Elections , Fact Check , Government , Mayor 2012 , News How the Pension Initiative Saves $1 Billion and $0: Fact Check by Liam Dillon March 22, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “The referendum itself does not save a nickel,” Bob Filner, a candidate for mayor, said on KPBS television March 20 . Determination: True Statement: “They still have to agree that it saves roughly $1 billion if fully and faithfully implemented,” Carl DeMaio, a candidate for mayor, said on KPBS radio March 21 . Determination: True Analysis: This week, the city of San Diego released its official financial analysis on Proposition B, the hotly contested pension reform initiative on the June ballot. The measure’s main feature is to give most new city employees 401(k)s instead of guaranteed pensions The fiscal analysis was supposed to answer the all-important question about the measure: How much money does it save? Instead, it reinforced a larger and more significant point about Prop. B’s financial effects. What happens after the initiative passes matters just as much, if not more, than the result at the ballot box. After the analysis was released, supporters and opponents made the rounds in local media touting how it bolstered their arguments. Mayoral candidate Carl DeMaio, one of the initiative’s authors, told KPBS the measure saves “roughly $1 billion.” Mayoral candidate Bob Filner, a high-profile opponent, told KPBS the measure didn’t even save “a nickel.” They’re both right. This is how complicated Prop. B is. Based on the same financial analysis, both sides of the initiative can credibly defend savings estimates that are $1 billion apart. Let’s break down how this is possible, starting with DeMaio’s statement that the measure saves “roughly $1 billion.” Prop. B has many parts. Most notable is the 401(k) portion. The measure switches all new city employees except police officers to 401(k)s instead of guaranteed pensions. The financial analysis concluded that this switch to 401(k)s and other changes to the pension system will cost the city $13 million over the next three decades. That’s in large part because the city already has reformed pensions for new employees in 2008. The new 401(k) plan is more costly over the next 30 years than the current reduced pension plan, according to the analysis. But there’s another part of the measure that saves a lot of money if everything goes according to plan. The measure attempts to freeze how much of city employees’ pay will count toward their pensions, known as their “pensionable pay,” for five years. We have described how the pay freeze works before : The concept is breathtakingly simple: Pay people less when they’re working and you pay them less in retirement. Here’s a slightly more complicated explanation: Keeping salaries steady saves on pensions because the retirement system’s projections assume pay will increase every year. If pay doesn’t go up, the city’s forecasted costs aren’t as high. If the pay freeze happens as proposed, the financial analysis says the city will save $963 million over the next 30 years. Subtract the 401(k) costs and you get $950 million in savings for city coffers. That’s a fair enough figure for DeMaio to accurately claim the measure as a whole saves “roughly $1 billion.” Now let’s turn to Filner’s comments. He says the referendum by itself doesn’t save any money. How can he be correct, too? It goes back to the pay freeze. It’s not guaranteed to happen. Here’s how we’ve described it before : California law prohibits voters from imposing city worker salaries at the ballot box. The initiative, then, merely requires the city’s opening negotiating position with labor unions include the freeze. The city can change that negotiating position with a two-thirds majority of City Council. The broader context of Filner’s statement to KPBS made this exact point. To recap, what happens after the initiative passes matters a great deal in how much money it will save. If the pay freeze doesn’t occur — or is ruled illegal in court — the initiative could wind up costing the cash-strapped city some money. That’s Filner’s point. But supporters of the initiative have said that political pressure from the ballot measure’s success will ensure that council members enact the pay freeze. DeMaio alluded to this issue when he told KPBS that the savings would come if the measure is “fully and faithfully implemented.” If that happens, the city would save money. When we Fact Checked an issue related to the pay freeze last summer we decided it was fair for supporters to claim savings from the freeze in financial analyses provided they don’t contend these savings are guaranteed. At the least, the measure provides strong direction to freeze pay. To know more about the pay freeze, which is the linchpin of Prop. B’s cost savings, check out this recent video we did with did with NBC 7 San Diego for our San Diego Explained series. The segment aired prior to the release of the financial analysis so the savings estimates we use in the video are different than the ones in this story. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? Liam Dillon is a news reporter for voiceofsandiego.org. He covers San Diego City Hall, the 2012 mayor’s race and big building projects. Please contact him directly at liam.dillon@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5663. Follow @dillonliam Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bob Filner , California , Carl Demaio , Cpr , Fact Check: True , Factcheck Voiceofsandiego.org , Kpbs , Labor , Pay Freeze , Pension Reform , Pensionable Pay , Pensions , Prop B , San Diego , San Diego City Hall , Social Issues Liam Dillon Liam Dillon was formerly a senior reporter and assistant editor for Voice of San Diego. He led VOSD’s investigations and wrote about how regular people... More by Liam Dillon Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack