Fact Check: D.A. Says the Media Did It | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Elections , Fact Check , Mayor 2012 , News Fact Check: D.A. Says the Media Did It by Will Carless April 19, 2011 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “I think you, the collective media, have made it all about elected officials,” District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis told us in an interview about the focus of her Public Integrity Unit . Determination: Huckster Propaganda Analysis: In 2007, District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis set up a Public Integrity Unit with much fanfare. Four years later, it had seemingly gone quiet. I decided to take a look back at the unit’s work and found that it had prosecuted just three elected officials, only one of which resulted in punitive action — a $1,000 fine. While reporting the story , a spokesman for Dumanis sent me a list of 88 public integrity cases the D.A.’s office had prosecuted since 2008. The list was largely comprised of rank-and-file employees such as a police officer, a rec center employee and even lawyers. In an interview, Dumanis claimed that the unit had been set up to investigate and prosecute any and all public employees — not just elected officials. Dumanis said reporters had misconstrued the purpose of the Public Integrity Unit, limiting its role to the prosecution of elected officials and not including all the public employees investigated by her office. “I think you, the collective media, have made it all about elected officials, that’s who you’re interested in these days,” Dumanis said. But if the media has construed the role of the unit that way, it’s because Dumanis defined the team that way four years ago. At the the 2007 press conference where she announced the creation of the unit and in the her office’s corresponding press release , Dumanis’ message was crystal clear: The team would be focused on investigating corruption among elected officials, candidates and campaign officials. In response to this Fact Check, Walker told me it’s “understandable” that the media would focus on elected officials, given Dumanis’ statements back in 2007. But Walker pointed out that the press conference four years ago included a lengthy question and answer session with reporters — important context Walker said is not part of the archived video of the press conference, which only shows Dumanis’ prepared speech. “You only know the official announcement of what was a 25- to 30-minute press conference,” Walker said. Walker said he couldn’t remember if Dumanis had expanded on what exactly constituted a “public integrity” case at the press conference. Further, Walker pointed to a statement from the press release he authored in 2007, which quotes Dumanis as saying: “The people have the right to expect that their public officials will not privately and illegally benefit from their public positions and from the public treasury.” Walker sent me an extract from the California Government Code. Section 82048 of the code defines a public official as “every member, officer, employee or consultant of a state or local government agency.” Walker’s press release from the time only expands into specifics beyond the phrase “public officials” in its first sentence. It reads: San Diego County District Attorney Bonnie M. Dumanis today announced the formation of a Public Integrity Unit to investigate allegations of criminal misconduct among elected officials, candidates for office and campaign officials in San Diego County. Dumanis took the step of announcing this unit publicly. She chose to invite television cameras to film her speaking. She also sent out a press release to the media that laid out her goals and defined the scope of what the new unit would be doing. We’re calling this statement Huckster Propaganda. That’s because the statement is not only inaccurate, but it’s reasonable to believe that Dumanis knew it was inaccurate but made the statement anyway to attempt to gain an advantage in the story I was writing about the Public Integrity Unit. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? Please contact Will Carless directly at will.carless@voiceofsandiego.org or at 619.550.5670 and follow him on Twitter: twitter.com/willcarless . WHAT TO READ NEXT VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures San Diegans Can Drink Their Tap Water. Many Pay More at the Vending Machine Anyway. Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: 2012 mayor's race , Bonnie Dumanis , Fact Check: Huckster Propaganda , Huckster Propaganda , Public Integrity Unit , Steve Walker Will Carless Will Carless was formerly the head of investigations at Voice of San Diego. More by Will Carless Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack