Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd Said "No" to Sharia-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd Said "No" to Sharia-Fiction! Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd Said "No" to Sharia-Fiction! / Miscellaneous , Politics , Religious / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd Said “No” to Sharia- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: Allegations that Prime Ministers in Australia have told Muslim immigrants that if they did not like the Australian legal system that they were welcome to return to where they came from. This is said to have happened after requests were made to include Sharia to the Australian legal system. The Truth: TruthOrFiction.com has found no evidence that Julia Gillard made such a comment.  This appears to be an old eRumor that has risen from the ashes and made current by changing the political figure who was alleged to made such a comment. The origin of this eRumor stems back to 2006 when Australian Finance Minister Peter Costello said in a speech at the Sydney Institute, “There is one law we are all expected to abide by. It is the law enacted by the Parliament under the Australian Constitution. If you can’t accept that then you don’t accept the fundamentals of what Australia is and what it stands for.” Costello suggested that if someone wanted to live under Sharia law [law derived from the Koran], Saudia Arabia and Iran should be considered. Then he added, “Before becoming an Australian you will be asked to subscribe to certain values. If you have strong objections to those values don’t come to Australia.”uot; Since then, the names of Australian Prime Ministers have somehow had their names brought into this eRumor, including Gillard and Kevin Rudd. Posted  09/12/14 Related eRumors: Australian Government Official Says Muslims Who Want to Live by Sharia Law Not Welcome There.- Truth! Russian President Vladimir Putin Says No to Sharia- Fiction! GOP Law Makers in Florida Jumped to Protect the State from Sharia Law- Truth! Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x