Award for Sexual Predators: Did President Obama Award the Medal of Freedom to Clinton, Weinstein, Weiner, Cosby? – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics Award for Sexual Predators: Did President Obama Award the Medal of Freedom to Clinton, Weinstein, Weiner, Cosby? Award for Sexual Predators: Did President Obama Award the Medal of Freedom to Clinton, Weinstein, Weiner, Cosby? / Disinformation , Fact Checks , Obama , Politics , Viral Content / By Rich Buhler & Staff / October 19, 2017 A claim that United States President Barack Obama had awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to various men accused of unsavory or predatory behavior appeared in a October 2017 meme, after Hollywood director Harvey Weinstein was publicly accused of sexual assault by at least forty women who worked with his company. It’s not clear precisely where the meme originated, but it shows Obama pinning the Medal of Freedom on former U.S. President Bill Clinton, the aforementioned Harvey Weinstein, disgraced congressman Anthony Weiner , and  comedian Bill Cosby : The text reads: I didn’t know there was a sexual predator award.. Thanks Democrats The photo of Obama and Clinton is real ; President Obama awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Bill Clinton in 2013. By contrast, the other three photos have been digitally manipulated — and not particularly well, for that matter — to make it appear that they were honored by Obama as well. A list of everyone awarded the Presidential Medal of Honor by Obama can be found at the archived version of Obama’s White House website. Neither Weinstein, Weiner, nor Cosby appear there, making this claim and meme pure disinformation. Note, 1/23/2020, 11:06am: This page has been updated. You can view the original here . -bb Article Sources + THE PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x