DeMaio Misrepresents Filner's Airport Legal Troubles: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Elections , Fact Check , Government , Mayor 2012 , News DeMaio Misrepresents Filner’s Airport Legal Troubles: Fact Check by Liam Dillon October 18, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: Mayoral candidate Bob “Filner was arrested for assaulting a female baggage handler. The woman called him scary and hostile. Filner pleaded no contest,” a recent advertisement from Filner’s opponent, Carl DeMaio. Determination: Misleading Analysis: It’s not surprising that San Diego mayoral candidate Bob Filner’s 2007 run-in with a baggage clerk at Dulles Airport near Washington D.C. has reared its head in the election. When a sitting congressman gets a crime on his record, it’s news. When the circumstances surrounding that crime fit the narrative that the congressman has a combative personality , it’s going to be used against him. In August, we dinged Filner with a Misleading rating for badly distorting the nature of the incident in a radio interview. He made the episode sound much less serious than it was. Now in a new advertisement, Filner’s opponent, Carl DeMaio, has misrepresented the incident as well. DeMaio makes it sound more serious. Here are the facts of the case: In August 2007, Filner was cited for misdemeanor assault and battery after a United Airlines baggage clerk complained that the congressman pushed her during a tirade about delayed luggage. He later pleaded to a misdemeanor trespassing charge for entering a restricted area in the airport, paid a court-ordered fine and wrote a letter of apology to the clerk. But here’s what a narrator intones at the end of DeMaio’s ad: Most shockingly, Filner was arrested for assaulting a female baggage handler. The woman called him scary and hostile. Filner pleaded no contest. DeMaio’s ad distorts the record in two key ways. First, Filner wasn’t arrested. Police interviewed him at the airport, but he was allowed to leave. Filner later received a summons to show up in court after the clerk pressed assault charges. Second, by not mentioning that Filner ultimately pleaded to trespassing, the ad implies there’s an assault on Filner’s record. That’s not true. Filner also has vociferously argued that he never struck the clerk. DeMaio’s ad is correct that the clerk described Filner as “scary” and “hostile.” (A lesser point is that Filner didn’t actually plead no contest. He entered what’s known as an Alford Plea. It’s similar to a no contest plea in that a defendant does not admit guilt. But a conviction of guilty is recorded.) DeMaio’s campaign disputed our analysis. Spokesman K.B. Forbes said the issue of Filner receiving a summons instead of being arrested was a distinction without a difference. And he said plea bargains usually involve someone copping to a lesser charge to avoid a public trial. “Our belief, based on public statements from the victim of his assault, is that Congressman Filner received special treatment and was only allowed to plead to a lesser charge due to his stature,” Forbes said. DeMaio’s campaign might believe that Filner received special treatment, but no one’s proven it. A court did say that Filner pleaded to misdemeanor trespassing, not assault, like the ad implies. Our definition of a Misleading statement is one that takes an element of truth and badly distorts it or exaggerates it giving a deceptive impression. In this case, DeMaio distorts the record to imply that the results of the incident were worse than the ultimate legal resolution. Here’s the DeMaio ad in full: If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? Liam Dillon is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He covers San Diego City Hall, the 2012 mayor’s race and big building projects. Please contact him directly at liam.dillon@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5663. Disclosure: Voice of San Diego members and supporters may be mentioned or have a stake in the stories we cover. For a complete list of our contributors, click here . Follow @dillonliam Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Encinitas Had the Only North County Sales Tax Measure That Failed. This May Be Why. Battery Building Could Become Harder in San Diego County Song of the Week: ‘Hold It Together’ South County Report: ‘Forever’ Chemicals Discovered in South County Water Mayor Gloria Chimes in on La Jolla Secession Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Baggage Clerk , Bob Filner , Carl Demaio , Congressman , Dulles Airport , Fact Check: Misleading , Mayoral Candidate , Washington D.c. Liam Dillon Liam Dillon was formerly a senior reporter and assistant editor for Voice of San Diego. He led VOSD’s investigations and wrote about how regular people... More by Liam Dillon Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack