Explorers Have Found the Biblical Noah's Ark on Mt. Ararat in Turkey-Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Religious Explorers Have Found the Biblical Noah's Ark on Mt. Ararat in Turkey-Unproven! Explorers Have Found the Biblical Noah's Ark on Mt. Ararat in Turkey-Unproven! / Religious / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Explorers Have Found the Biblical Noah’s Ark on Mt. Ararat in Turkey- Unproven! Summary of eRumor: This is a forwarded email telling of an archeological find in the mountains in Turkey.  An Biblical archeologist claims to have found Noah’s Ark. The Truth: The Internet has been abuzz with reports that a team of adventurers claim to have found the wooden remains of Noah’s ark in the mountains where the Bible says the vessel came to rest after the Biblical flood. The team has not revealed the location of its find, however, and has yet to allow its claims to be reviewed by archaeologists and other scientists. According to an April 27, 2010 article in The Sun in the United Kingdom, Noah’s Ark Ministries International researcher Yeung Wing-Cheung said, “It’s not 100 per cent that it is Noah’s Ark, but we think it is 99.9 per cent that this is it.”   The newspaper also has video from the exploration on their report. Click for story The adventurers held a news conference this week at which they showed pictures of the inside of a wooden structure they said was found at the 13,000 foot mark of Mt Ararat. Reports started circulating on Wednesday, however, that archeologist Dr. Randall Price of Liberty University suspected a hoax because of information he had been given by sources in Turkey who suggested that the wood had been hauled onto the mountain by local men who wanted the researchers to believe they had found the ark. The consensus of archaeologists watching the story develop seems to be “Let’s wait and see what further investigation into the claims reveals.” updated 4/30/10 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x