Duck Dynasty vs. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Celebrities Duck Dynasty vs. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad-Truth! Duck Dynasty vs. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad-Truth! / Celebrities / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 Duck Dynasty vs. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad- Truth! Summary of eRumor: This is a photo that is spreading on the Internet of Duck Dynasty’s Phil Robertson and Iran’s former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The caption said that Liberals demanded that Robertson be censored yet they invited Ahmadinejad to speak at Columbia University even though he ordered the execution of numerous homosexuals in Iran. The Truth: Phil Robertson of the television program Duck Dynasty made some controversial remarks about homosexuality and his belief in Christian doctrine in an interview in the January edition of GQ Magazine .   When asked what in his mind did he consider sinful, Robertson replied, ““Start with homosexual behavior and just morph out from there. Bestiality, sleeping around with this woman and that woman and that woman and those men.” Robertson then cited a passage from the New Testament book of Corinthians, “Don’t be deceived. Neither the adulterers, the idolaters, the male prostitutes, the homosexual offenders, the greedy, the drunkards, the slanderers, the swindlers—they won’t inherit the kingdom of God.”  He then added, “Don’t deceive yourself. It’s not right.” When news of this interview hit the mainstream media, members of the Gay and Lesbian community were upset enough to launch a formal protest and boycott.  A&E, the network that aired Duck Dynasty suspended Robertson from appearing on any further episodes but later reversed their decision. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was invited to speak at Columbia University according to a September 22, 2007 article by Fox News.  Ahmadinejad has publicly denied that Iran has any homosexuals yet the country has executed over 100 citizens accused of the crime of homosexual acts, a violation of Sharia law. Posted 01/20/14 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x