American Aircraft Manufacturer Excluded From Bidding on Air Force
Contract-Truth! & Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Space / Aviation American Aircraft Manufacturer Excluded From Bidding on Air Force
Contract-Truth! & Unproven! American Aircraft Manufacturer Excluded From Bidding on Air Force
Contract-Truth! & Unproven! / Government , Space / Aviation / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 American Aircraft Manufacturer Excluded From Bidding on Air Force Contract- Truth! & Unproven! Summary of eRumor: Emails are circulating the Internet that says that the Obama Administration has excluded the American owned and operated Hawker Beechcraft aircraft manufacture from bidding on a contract for an Air Force contract.   Some versions say that this would leave the Brazilian Embraer manufacture as the likely winner in the bid process and allege that George Soros owns the Brazilian aircraft company. The Truth: The Wichita, Kansas based Hawker Beechcraft Company has filed a law suit over its rejection to bid on close to $1 Billion in aircraft business with the U.S. Air Force, according to a December 27, 2011 article in the Wichita Eagle. Click for article. The article said that the Hawker Beechcraft Company filed a protest with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting a review of the exclusion. The GAO said that in “dismissing Hawker Beechcraft’s protest, the Air Force said the company missed a three-day deadline to file a request for a debriefing and a 10-day deadline to file a protest.” Supporters of Hawker Beechcraft argue that the company has competed for this contract in the bid process against the Brazilian based Embraer for a year.  Winning this bid could eventually supply 35 aircraft to the U.S.  Air Force, which could result in a revenue of $950 million and the preservation of 1,400 U.S. jobs. Allegation of George Soros’ involvement with the Brazilian aircraft manufacture remains unproven.   An examination of the board of directors at Embraer showed no mention of Soros and a look at of the tycoon’s top international investments showed no direct dealings with Embraer. updated 12/29/11 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x