Growing Pension Costs for Politicians | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check Growing Pension Costs for Politicians by Summer Polacek February 19, 2010 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “When also accounting for fringe benefits, the legislative compensation totals $135,912 . You will note the exorbitantly high amount, $38,190, for pension benefit contributions,” City Councilman Carl DeMaio wrote in open letter to Mark McMahon, president of the city’s Salary Setting Commission, Feb. 9. Determination: Mostly True Analysis: DeMaio’s statement came in response to a proposal by the Salary Setting Commission to dramatically increase the annual salaries for City Council members, who each currently get around $75,000. DeMaio objected to the proposal, saying council members are compensated much more than $75,000. His calculation assumes the city will pay about $75,000 for salary, $38,190 for toward the pension system and $22,000 for other benefits to each council member. We wanted to check out the pension contribution — the $38,190 figure — because it seemed like a high estimate. But, as it turns out, taxpayers will contribute the equivalent of 51 percent of the council members’ salaries to the pension system to pay for their retirements (51 percent of $75,000 is $38,250). Here’s how DeMaio came to that number: He asked for it. The city’s financial management department provided it. How did they come to it? From this . Every year the city’s retirement system sends the city a bill composed of two parts. The first is the normal cost: this year’s price tag to keep the pension fund from falling behind. The second part is the ongoing effort to pay down the massive deficit created by not contributing what it should have in the past. Despite their comparatively low salaries, the city’s elected officials have good retirement benefits. To fund the cost of that benefit this year, the city will have to send the retirement fund the equivalent of 20 percent of their salaries. It will pitch in another 25 percent of their salaries to pay for the old built-up deficit. In addition, the city has promised them that it will contribute nearly 6 percent of their salary more. Why? Because that’s the deal right now. We as a city have decided we don’t want them to contribute their full share, so we pay that 6 percent for them. And all that added together equals a match of 51 percent of their salaries. Next year, with the pension system collapsing, unless something changes, taxpayers will be on the hook to match the equivalent of 76 percent of elected officials’ salaries. The jump will come largely from the fact that the pension deficit continues to grow. The equivalent of 39 percent of elected officials’ salaries will go to pay that off. Another 31 percent will go to pay the normal cost of the benefit. It is important to remember, though, it’s not like council members are actually being compensated with $135,000 right now. That’s just what it costs to give them all this guaranteed retirement benefit. Some of their pension contributions are paying for retired mayors, city attorneys and City Council members. They will have to wait to get their own share. How much they ultimately collect will depend on how long they live and how many years they serve the city. And that’s why his statement is mostly true. — SCOTT LEWIS WHAT TO READ NEXT Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Carl Demaio , city financial crisis , Fact Check , Fact Check: Mostly True , Pension Summer Polacek Summer Polacek was formerly the Development Manager at Voice of San Diego. More by Summer Polacek Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack