DNC Banned Churches From Distributing Gift Baskets to Delegates at
Convention-Truth! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Fact Checks Politics DNC Banned Churches From Distributing Gift Baskets to Delegates at
Convention-Truth! DNC Banned Churches From Distributing Gift Baskets to Delegates at
Convention-Truth! / Politics , Religious / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 DNC Banned Churches From Distributing Gift Baskets to Delegates at Convention- Truth! Summary of eRumor: This is a forwarded email that contains what appears to be an article by the Reverend Austin Miles. The article said that the Democratic National Convention (DNC) prohibited members from a group of organized churches, assembled in the Charlotte, North Carolina area, from handing out gift baskets to delegates.  They were told by the DNC that this was because of differences in the Democratic Party platform and the traditional values held by the congregations. The Truth: The article was written on September 10, 2012 by Revered Austin Miles, who posted it on his blog/web site.   This eRumor went viral during the weekend of September 22, 2012, several weeks after the DNC. Click for article. We found a September 5, 2012 Fox News Radio article confirming the incident, which said that 9,000 people from a group called “Charlotte714,” led by David Benham, were assembled from “more than 100 churches across the region that mobilized to pray for the Democratic National Convention.”   The article went on to say that in an attempt to display Southern hospitality they came up with an operation called “Adopt-A-Delegation” where members from 56 churches assembled “gift baskets featuring Carolina Pralines and a letter welcoming them to the city and offering assistance in transportation, childcare or spiritual matters.” Benham said that DNC officials informed “city leaders that the Christians would not be allowed to present their gift baskets.”    He added, “I got a call from the mayor’s office speaking on behalf of the convention and they asked us not to participate.  They told us our views on women’s rights are contrary to the platform.” updated 09/25/12 Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x