Fact check: Claim Scots housing spend is 10 times England is Half True Login Join us Donate About us Ferret Fact Service Help and support Inside the Ferret Blog Recruitment Transparency Privacy Audio and Podcasts Contact Shop Training Training events Subscribe Donate Latest Can a Norwegian seafood giant allay locals’ fears over a Highland fish farm? Explainer: Scottish fish farming Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Our editorial team Alastair Brian Billy Briggs Angela Catlin Paul Dobson Rob Edwards Karin Goodwin Jamie Mann Petra Matijevic Ally Tibbitt Trending Millions of gamebirds imported during record bird flu outbreak Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Baillie Gifford investment sparks AI weapons debate Weekly email The Latest Can a Norwegian seafood giant allay locals’ fears over a Highland fish farm? Explainer: Scottish fish farming Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scottish Government Featured Friends of the Earth Scotland UK Government Freedom of Information Nicola Sturgeon Covid-19 Scottish Parliament Police Scotland SEPA Mark Ruskell Home Office Fish farming Ross Greer Edinburgh Glasgow City Council Ministry of Defence Richard Dixon Glasgow Campaign Against Arms Trade Claim Scotland spends 10 times more per person on social housing than England is Half True by Ferret Journalists October 4, 2018 Theresa May has announced a funding boost for social housing across the UK, saying that £2bn has been earmarked to build new homes. According to the Prime Minister , this would cover the building of 40,000 social and affordable homes housing. The pledge covers the next spending review period from 2021 to 2028. Government critic and Labour peer Andrew Adonis criticised the announcement and compared spending on social housing by the UK government with that of the Scottish Government. BBC parroting the No 10 hype about social housing ‘£2bn’ today shows their now normal inability to do any REPORTING. This is ONE TENTH of what Scotland is spending on social housing pro rata – it doesn’t even start for 3 years & is spread over the next 7. It is a non-announcement — Andrew Adonis (@Andrew_Adonis) September 19, 2018 Ferret Fact Service looked at the claim that spending was one-tenth of Scotland’s figure. We found this to be Half True . Evidence Housing policy is devolved to the Scottish Parliament. Scotland has pursued a different housing policy to Westminster since devolution and has a separate system for building affordable homes. Lord Adonis claimed that spending on housing in the UK was one tenth of the amount spent in Scotland “pro-rata”. Lord Adonis did not confirm what this referred to when asked by FFS, but it probably means that spending is higher proportional to population size. The Scottish Government’s ‘More Homes’ initiative has committed to a certain spending level over the course of the current parliament, from 2017/18 to 2020/21 The More Homes Scotland 2018 progress update said: “We’ll spend more than £3 billion to deliver at least 50,000 affordable homes”. It is likely that Lord Adonis is referring to the overall affordable housing investments announced by the respective governments in the UK and Scotland. The £2bn announced by the Prime Minister covers the period from 2021 to 2028, and would provide housing associations in England with funding to build new homes. This is difficult to compare with Scotland as no budget for the same period has been confirmed. It also covers a very long period, from 2021/22 to 2028/29. The Scottish Government’s latest budget for the More Homes initiative covers from 2016 to 2021. The budget allocated to this project was around £3bn, which equates to spending of about £533 per head of population in Scotland. The £2bn fund announced by Theresa May would mean just £36 per head in England. However, the announced figure is long-term planning and may not be the full amount spent on new housing in England during that period. The UK Government announced £4.7bn in 2016 for new homes in England as part of the Shared Ownership and Affordable Homes Programme (SOAHP). This covers the period from 2016 to 2021, and works out at approximately £85 per head. However, this was increased to around £9.1bn in the last budget, which would bring the figure per head up to £164. So, Lord Adonis is broadly correct that overall spending on social and affordable housing is higher per capita in Scotland than in England, but we could not replicate his claim that it was ten times higher. Scotland has provided more affordable homes per capita than the UK government every year for the last decade, as revealed in a parliamentary question by Scottish MSP Ben Macpherson. Ferret Fact Service verdict: Half True Spending on social and affordable housing is currently higher in Scotland than in England, per capita. However, the figures used by Lord Adonis are not really comparable, because they refer to different funding periods and the Scottish Government has not yet confirmed its spending plans for the equivalent period. Scotland and England allocate spending differently and have followed significantly different approaches to housing since devolution. Ferret Fact Service (FFS) is a non-partisan fact checker, working to the International Fact-Checking Network fact-checkers’ code of principles. All the sources used in our checks are publicly available and the FFS fact-checking methodology can be viewed here . Want to suggest a fact check? Email us at factcheck@theferret.scot or join our community forum . More like this Scottish Government housing scheme criticised for ‘reviving right to buy’ Claim that 200,000 people are waiting for affordable housing is Half True Share Tweet Subscribe affordable housing Housing Scottish Government social housing UK Government Westminster Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ View Comments (0) About us Contact Pitch us a story Privacy Trouble logging in? Complaints The Ferret is published by The Ferret Media Ltd, Registered Society, RS0040088. Manage cookie consent Find us on Mastodon Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join our co-operative now to get unlimited access. See other membership options Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Join now (£5 per month) You can join using Direct Debit, payment card or Paypal. Cancel at any time. If you are on a low-income you may be eligible for a free sponsored membership. Having trouble logging in? Try here. Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join now Hi! You can login using the form below. Not registered yet? Join now Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Having trouble logging in? Try here. Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Subscribe Privacy notice We use cookies on our website that help us remember your preferences and provide the best multi-media service we possibly can. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to allow all cookies. However you can adjust your Cookie Settings to disable non-essential cookies. Cookie settings ACCEPT Manage cookie consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of the website. We also use some non-necessary cookies that help us analyse and understand how you use this website and optimise your experience when we use third party services. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies, although you should be aware that opting-out may increase the possibility that some services may not work or display optimally. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non Necessary non-necessary Any cookies that may not vital for our website to function. By accepting this type of cookies you agree to let us record more information about you and your use of our website. Save & Accept Powered by