ISIS Buys Stolen UPS Uniforms on Ebay – Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Terrorism ISIS Buys Stolen UPS Uniforms on Ebay – Fiction! ISIS Buys Stolen UPS Uniforms on Ebay – Fiction! / Terrorism / By Rich Buhler & Staff / November 20, 2015 ISIS Buys Stolen UPS Uniforms on Ebay – Fiction! Summary of eRumor: There are reports that ISIS has stolen UPS uniforms and terrorists are masquerading as UPS employees. The Truth: This is an old rumor with a new twist — but it’s still false. ISIS has not stolen UPS uniforms, and ISIS has not purchased UPS uniforms on Ebay. TruthorFiction.com has debunked rumors about stolen UPS uniforms in the past , and reports about ISIS terrorists wearing stolen UPS uniforms are a new variation on it. On November 18, 2015, days after terrorist attacks on Paris, a homeland security alert that appeared to be issued by the Department of Homeland Security went viral on Facebook. The letter warned that 32,000 UPS uniforms had fallen into the hands of ISIS terrorists who purchased them on Ebay. After a sheriff in Alabama “shared” the bogus warning about ISIS terrorists dressed as UPS delivery drivers on Facebook, the story took off. A day later, Talladega Sheriff Jimmy Kilgore apologized for sharing the false warning: TruthorFiction.com also spoke with a UPS spokesperson that confirmed that there have been no reports of stolen UPS uniforms, and there is no threat of imposters posing as UPS delivery drivers. “This is a hoax,” Susan Rosenberg, the pubic relations director at UPS, told us. “UPS actively monitors the unauthorized re-sale of UPS uniforms on E-Bay and takes measures to remove them from the public domain. As a matter of safety and security it is prudent in any situation to ask for an ID from any delivery personnel if you are in doubt.” This old rumor about stolen UPS uniforms for sale on Ebay is still false. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x