Mayor Misspoke on Bike Sharing Claim: Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Development , Fact Check Mayor Misspoke on Bike Sharing Claim: Fact Check by Keegan Kyle September 20, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “We’ll be the first city that actually doesn’t subsidize it,” Mayor Jerry Sanders said during a Fox 5 interview about his bike-sharing plan. Determination: False Analysis: Earlier this week, Mayor Jerry Sanders announced a plan to bring bike-sharing to San Diego and promised the program wouldn’t cost taxpayers a dime. It would be funded solely by private investors. Bike sharing has been one way that cities try to increase public transit options. Cities set up unmanned bicycle stations around town. Then people pay membership or flat rates to rent bikes. One challenge, especially for cash-strapped cities like San Diego, has been funding the programs. Spending part of the city’s budget on a new bike program would mean diverting money from other services like libraries, parks and police. Sanders says San Diego could pioneer a privately funded program. During a Sept. 19 interview on Fox 5’s morning show , he made a bold claim about how his proposal stacks up against what other cities have done. “We’ll be the first city that actually doesn’t subsidize it. In other cities they pay for it,” Sanders said. We decided to Fact Check the comparison because Sanders’ cited it to bolster his plan. Bike-sharing has been spreading across urban areas for years. Would cash-strapped San Diego be the first to not provide public subsidies? No, we found. The mayor was mistaken. Anaheim launched the first bike-sharing program in California last month and its funding does not include city money. Los Angeles also plans to launch a similar, privately funded program later this year. Sanders wants bike-sharing to be available in San Diego by next spring — after both Anaheim and Los Angeles have their programs. San Diego wouldn’t be the first to have a privately-funded program. For that reason, we’ve rated the mayor’s comparison False. In an email Thursday, mayoral spokesman Darren Pudgil acknowledged the error. He said Sanders’ meant to say San Diego will be one of the first cities that doesn’t subsidize bike-sharing. The mayor made that point during his press conference about bike-sharing and in a press release sent to reporters, Pudgil said. To our knowledge, Sanders only made the incorrect claim during the Fox 5 interview, which was broadcast across the region. “I hope that you will not use the mayor’s error to suggest that he is misleading people on this,” Pudgil wrote. “He knows it’s ONE. He simply misspoke.” Regardless, Sanders’ statement still fits our definition of False. The definition says: “The statement is not accurate. This could be an error or misstatement but it’s simply not true and there is no element of truth to it.” If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning, too. For more detail on the mayor’s bike-sharing plan, check out this explainer . Keegan Kyle is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He writes about local government , creates infographics and handles the Fact Check Blog . What should he write about next? Please contact him directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668. You can also find him on Twitter ( @keegankyle ) and Facebook . Follow @keegankyle Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Anaheim , Bicycle Sharing System , Bike Sharing , California , Darren Pudgil , Fact Check: False , hospitality recreation , Jerry Sanders , Los Angeles , Public Transit , San Diego , Southern California Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack