Did 'Congressman Sewage' Save Billions? Fact Check | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Elections , Fact Check , Mayor 2012 , News Did ‘Congressman Sewage’ Save Billions? Fact Check by Liam Dillon October 3, 2012 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “My first bill in Congress saved San Diego taxpayers, you guys, over $3 billion,” Bob Filner, a mayoral candidate, said at a debate Aug. 14. Determination: Mostly True Analysis: On the mayoral campaign trail, San Diego City Councilman Carl DeMaio tries to remind voters time and again that he’s the one with the record of saving taxpayers money. At a debate in August, DeMaio’s opponent, Congressman Bob Filner, was having none of it: My first bill in Congress saved San Diego taxpayers, you guys, over $3 billion. He takes credit, I don’t know, for $150 million. You’re a piker on this tax savings. I got a waiver for the sewage treatment plant at Point Loma that still exists today that saved us $3 billion. We wanted to check Filner’s claim of saving $3 billion with his first bill, an enormous sum that would burnish his record in Washington, D.C. Filner had his Ocean Pollution Reduction Act signed into law in January 1994 during his first term in Congress. The law addressed a San Diego-specific problem. At least as far back as the 1980s, the city had a dispute with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency over its Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant, its major sewage facility. The plant didn’t — and still doesn’t — meet federal pollution standards. When Filner entered Congress in 1993, the EPA was threatening to force the city to upgrade its sewage treatment process before it pumped millions of gallons of wastewater into the Pacific Ocean. The upgrade’s estimated price tag at the time? Three billion dollars. San Diego had missed a federal deadline to apply for a waiver to EPA rules. So special legislation — Filner’s bill — was needed to give the city another opportunity. Filner and other federal lawmakers from San Diego and California pushed aggressively. The EPA granted San Diego a waiver 18 months after the bill passed. Filner dubbed himself “ Congressman Sewage ” for his efforts. But the situation isn’t as simple as Filner makes it sound. Filner’s bill led to a temporary waiver of federal pollution rules, not a permanent one. And the city remains in negotiations with the EPA over how it handles sewage. San Diego is on its third waiver and is up for renewal again in 2015. That process is expected to require the city recycle more of its sewage than it does today. Cost estimates for upgrading the Point Loma plant have dropped from $3 billion to $1.2 billion in part because of other improvements to San Diego’s wastewater system. The price tag could go even lower, to $710 million, if the city fully implements the sewage recycling strategy. Our definition of a Mostly True statement is one that’s accurate, but has an important nuance. It fits here. Filner’s bill was a milestone in San Diego’s decades-long sewage treatment saga. It helped spare the city an estimated $3 billion upgrade at the plant in the mid-1990s. But the bill didn’t resolve San Diego’s sewage problem nor did it absolve the city of expenses related to it. Both are significant issues to consider when evaluating his claim. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. You can also e-mail new Fact Check suggestions to factcheck@voiceofsandiego.org . What claim should we explore next? Liam Dillon is a news reporter for Voice of San Diego. He covers San Diego City Hall, the 2012 mayor’s race and big building projects. Please contact him directly at liam.dillon@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5663. Follow @dillonliam Follow @voiceofsandiego Like VOSD on Facebook . WHAT TO READ NEXT Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch How Three North County Cities Managed to Pass Sales Tax Measures Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: Bob Filner , Carl Demaio , Fact Check: Mostly True , Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant , Sewage Treatment Infrastructure Liam Dillon Liam Dillon was formerly a senior reporter and assistant editor for Voice of San Diego. He led VOSD’s investigations and wrote about how regular people... More by Liam Dillon Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack