Mark Zuckerberg Facebook Cash Giveaways-Scam! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Internet Mark Zuckerberg Facebook Cash Giveaways-Scam! Mark Zuckerberg Facebook Cash Giveaways-Scam! / Internet / By Rich Buhler & Staff / December 7, 2015 Mark Zuckerberg Facebook Cash Giveaways- Scam! Summary of eRumor: It’s been reported that Mark Zuckerberg is giving away $4.5 million to 1,000 lucky Facebook users. The Truth: Don’t fall for Mark Zuckerberg Facebook giveaway scams — they’re false. After Mark Zuckerberg announced plans to “give away” 99% of his Facebook stock , about $45 billion, scammers tried to cash in with fake Zuckerberg giveaway offers. These scams have taken on various forms. One popular scam claims that Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook would reward 10,000 Facebook users with cash prizes, as well on grand prize winner with $10 million. This scam actually started in 2014 when Facebook was celebrating its 10th anniversary, but it went viral again after Zuckerberg announced that he planned to give away $45 billion to charitable causes. Another scam went viral on Facebook in December 2015. That one claims that when Mark Zuckerberg announced plans to give away $45 billion, that he promised 10% of it would be given to Facebook users “like you and me.” The scam says that 1,000 people will be given $4.5 million each: THANK YOU, MARK ZUCKERBERG, for your forward-thinking generosity! And congrats on becoming a dad! Mark Zuckerberg has announced that he is giving away $45 billion of Facebook stock. What you may not have heard is that he plans to give 10% of it away to people like YOU and ME! All you have to do is copy and paste this message into a post IMMEDIATELY and tag 5-10 of your friends. At midnight PST, Facebook will search through the day’s posts and award 1000 people with $4.5 million EACH as a way of saying thank you for making Facebook such a powerful vehicle for connection and philanthropy. I hope someone I know gets a piece of the pie–let me know if you do!! Don’t believe any posts that claim Mark Zuckerberg or Facebook is giving away money to random Facebook users. That will never happen, and Facebook has said that it will never communicate information with users via posts that are shared from friend to friend. To report fraudulent emails, forward them phish.fb.com. Follow these steps to report fraudulent Facebook messages and posts. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x