Fact Check: The Benefits of Widening Interstate 5 | Voice of San Diego Help us reach our $250,000 goal to keep delivering the news that matters most to you. Every contribution counts—support Voice of San Diego today! Give Now! Created using the Donation Thermometer plugin https://wordpress.org/plugins/donation-thermometer/. $250,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. $51,000 Raised $51,000 towards the $250,000 target. 20% Close 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Search for: Search All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Close Skip to content Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky Voice of San Diego Investigative journalism for a better San Diego 🛍️Shop VOSD 👤Sign In 👤My Account DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu All Stories Open dropdown menu All Recent Stories Arts/Culture Border Education Election Environment Government Homelessness Opinion North County Politics Sacramento Report South County Projects Open dropdown menu San Diego 2024 Election: What’s at Stake Politifest 2024: News and Media Public Matters Progress Report Schools Guide Beef Week Stadium Concession Investigation San Diego 101 Military Suicides San Diego’s Cost-of-Living Crisis Tijuana River Newsletters Open dropdown menu Newsletter Hub Not Getting Our Emails? Podcasts Open dropdown menu VOSD Podcast San Diego 101 Podcast VOSD Podcast Network Events Open dropdown menu All Events Politifest 2024: News and Media Brews & News: Voice of San Diego Live Podcasts Donor Recognition Events Support Us Open dropdown menu Become a Member Planned Giving Member Hub Vehicle Donation Become a Sponsor About Us Open dropdown menu Our Story and Mission Our Team What We Stand For Newsroom Diversity Board of Directors Our Supporters Careers Our Interns Contact Us Open dropdown menu Help Page and FAQ’s Contact Us Content Sharing Policy Submit a Commentary Submit a News Tip Privacy Policy Posted in Fact Check , News Fact Check: The Benefits of Widening Interstate 5 by Keegan Kyle March 3, 2011 March 15, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Sign up for The Morning Report with all your must-read news for the day . Statement: “And what do commuters gain after spending $3.4 billion? It will take seven minutes longer to travel from La Jolla Village Drive to Oceanside during rush hour. For $4.5 billion, drivers will save one minute and carpools will save 10 minutes,” State Sen. Christine Kehoe wrote in a letter to the Union-Tribune published Feb. 27. Determination: Mostly True Analysis: Last month, Kehoe proposed legislation that would make it harder for state transportation officials to expand freeways near the coast. The issue reignited a simmering local debate over adding lanes to Interstate 5. Caltrans has proposed four plans to expand the interstate between La Jolla and Oceanside, each aiming to reduce traffic congestion as population grows. Kehoe opposes the plan, preferring growth that focuses more on mass transit. Among other new restrictions, her legislation would require Caltrans to wait for mass transit expansions like commuter rail to be completed before expanding freeways. She argues that the I-5 expansion would come at too great of a cost, both financial and environmental. A day after Kehoe introduced the legislation, the Union-Tribune’s editorial board rejected its merit . The newspaper called mass transit vital to the region but said it cannot supplant an expanded interstate in the foreseeable future. “Without improvements, today’s freeway commute time of 38 minutes from La Jolla to Oceanside is expected to reach 70 minutes by 2030,” the newspaper wrote. Kehoe responded in a letter the following week, citing similar statistics to cast doubt on Caltrans’ proposals. “And what do commuters gain after spending $3.4 billion? It will take seven minutes longer to travel from La Jolla Village Drive to Oceanside during rush hour. For $4.5 billion, drivers will save one minute and carpools will save 10 minutes,” she wrote. Both the Union-Tribune and Kehoe accurately cited estimates from Caltrans that go to the heart of their disagreement. The newspaper pushed for action before congestion dramatically rises. Kehoe says the proposed options aren’t worth the price and wants alternatives. The graphic below compares the statistics and Caltrans’ four proposed plans. The Union-Tribune compared commute times between 2006 and 2030 if nothing is done. Kehoe compared commute times between 2006 and 2030 if Caltrans’ proposals move forward. Although Kehoe accurately cited the figures from Caltrans, her comparisons carry two important nuances. First, Kehoe highlighted the cost of the least expensive and most expensive of the four plans. But as far as travel time goes, the minutes saved from the $4.5 billion plan could be had for $700 million less. By citing that $4.5 billion plan, Kehoe used the highest estimate to augment her argument that consumers aren’t getting enough bang for their buck. And Kehoe compared commute times in 2006 and commute times 20 years from now without acknowledging the projected changes in population and traffic growth, which the estimates account for. Caltrans estimates the average daily traffic volume in the corridor will increase by 100,000 vehicles to about 300,000 in 2030. The projects would allow more vehicles to move through the area without a dramatic increase in travel times. Our definition for Mostly True says the statement must be accurate but contain an important nuance to consider. In this case, we found two. If you disagree with our determination or analysis, please express your thoughts in the comments section of this blog post. Explain your reasoning. What claim should we Fact Check next? Please contact Keegan Kyle directly at keegan.kyle@voiceofsandiego.org or 619.550.5668 and follow him on Twitter: twitter.com/keegankyle . WHAT TO READ NEXT Cup of Chisme: Cuts Hit Different Politics Report: Good Luck, Council President VOSD Podcast: Getting to the Meat and Potatoes Sacramento Report: How to Survive the Holidays and Avoid Civil War City Council To Review Updated Mega-Shelter Pitch Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Tagged: business finance , Caltrans , Christine Kehoe , Fact Check: Mostly True , freeway , interstate 5 , La Jolla , mass transit , Oceanside , San Diego , traffic congestion , Transit , Transportation Leave a comment We expect all commenters to be constructive and civil. We reserve the right to delete comments without explanation. You are welcome to flag comments to us . You are welcome to submit an opinion piece for our editors to review . Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Bluesky About Voice of San Diego is a registered trademark of Voice of San Diego, a California non-profit. 110 West A St. Suite 650, San Diego, CA 92101 Phone: 619-325-0525 Links About Us Contact Us Newsletters Podcasts Submit a News Tip Support Public Service Journalism We rely on people like you to support this service. Please donate or sponsor Voice of San Diego ® today. DONATE NOW © 2024 Voice of San Diego. All rights reserved. Powered by Newspack