Caitlyn Jenner to Pose Nude for Sports Illustrated Cover-Unproven! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Celebrities Caitlyn Jenner to Pose Nude for Sports Illustrated Cover-Unproven! Caitlyn Jenner to Pose Nude for Sports Illustrated Cover-Unproven! / Celebrities / By Rich Buhler & Staff / May 10, 2016 Caitlyn Jenner to Pose Nude for Sports Illustrated Cover- Unproven! Summary of eRumor: Reports that Caitlyn Jenner will pose for the body issue of Sports Illustrated wearing nothing but an American flag and her Olympic medals have gone viral. The Truth: Reports that Caitlyn Jenner plans to pose nude for a magazine have been circulating for more than a year — and none of them have been confirmed. The most recent rumor started with an unnamed source quoted in an US Weekly article that appeared under the headline, “Caitlyn Jenner to Pose Naked for ‘Sports Illustrated’ Cover.” The article reports : Caitlyn Jenner will appear on a summer cover of Sports Illustratedwearing “nothing but an American flag and her Olympic medal,” a source reveals in the latest issue of Us Weekly. The 66-year-old I Am Cait star (formerly known as Bruce) set a world decathlon record at the 1976 Montreal Summer Games. To celebrate the 40th anniversary of her win, she’ll pose with her gold medal for the first time post-transition, adds the source: “She’s excited about that.” (Her ex-wife Kris appeared topless with a medal during a 2007 photo shoot on Keeping Up With the Kardashians.) A representative for Caitlyn Jenner declined to comment on the story, stating that there was “no comment on any future plans at this time” in a follow-up Huffington Post report . So, since reports that Caitlyn Jenner plans to pose nude for the body issue of Sports Illustrated hinge on one unnamed source, we’re calling this rumor “unproven.” And this isn’t the first time this rumor has surfaced either. It was previously reported that Caityln Jenner would be paid $5 million to pose nude for Playboy magazine, which turned out to be false. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x