Fact check: Claim on Scotland's positive trade balance is Mostly False Login Join us Donate About us Ferret Fact Service Help and support Inside the Ferret Blog Recruitment Transparency Privacy Audio and Podcasts Contact Shop Training Training events Subscribe Donate Latest Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scotland’s Seas in Danger – part three Our editorial team Alastair Brian Billy Briggs Angela Catlin Paul Dobson Rob Edwards Karin Goodwin Jamie Mann Petra Matijevic Ally Tibbitt Trending Millions of gamebirds imported during record bird flu outbreak Baillie Gifford investment sparks AI weapons debate Rare capercaillie under threat from gamebirds Weekly email The Latest Photo essay: the blight of plastic pollution Scientists find highest ever level of microplastics in Scotland’s waters Scotland’s Seas in Danger – part three Fish farming companies under fire for information breaches Scottish Government Featured Friends of the Earth Scotland UK Government Freedom of Information Nicola Sturgeon Covid-19 Scottish Parliament Police Scotland SEPA Mark Ruskell Home Office Fish farming Ross Greer Edinburgh Glasgow City Council Ministry of Defence Richard Dixon Glasgow Campaign Against Arms Trade Claim on Scotland’s positive trade balance compared to UK nations is Mostly False by Ferret Journalists March 20, 2018 The economic case for an independent Scotland was one of the most important battlegrounds before the referendum, and supporters continue to make the case for Scotland’s potential prosperity. A social media graphic produced by pro-independence campaign group Business for Scotland was recently shared more than 2,500 times on Facebook which compares Scotland’s imports and exports to other UK nations. Ferret Fact Service looked at the claim made in this graphic and found it to be Mostly False . Evidence The measure this graphic is referencing is the balance of trade (BoT) – the difference between the value of a country’s imports and its exports. The first part of the claim is that “Scotland is the only UK nation to have exported more than it imported, every year since records began.” Business for Scotland say the source of this claim comes from the HMRC’s regional trade statistics (RTS) data, which lists overseas trade statistics consisting of imports and exports in goods for each UK region, as well as each nation as a whole. Current RTS data goes back to the first quarter of 1996 up until the final quarter of 2017. if(“undefined”==typeof window.datawrapper)window.datawrapper={};window.datawrapper={},window.datawrapper.embedDeltas={“100″:587,”200″:511,”300″:468,”400″:468,”500″:468,”700″:452,”800″:452,”900″:452,”1000”:452},window.datawrapper.iframe=document.getElementById(“datawrapper-chart-HrwxD”),window.datawrapper.iframe.style.height=window.datawrapper.embedDeltas.iframe.offsetWidth/100),100))]+”px”,window.addEventListener(“message”,function(a){if(“undefined”!=typeof a.data)for(var b in a.data)if(“HrwxD”==b)window.datawrapper.iframe.style.height=a.data+”px”}); The figures featured on the UK map in Business for Scotland’s graphic show the BoT at the end of the 2017 financial year for each individual nation, and for the UK as a whole. The calculations for Business for Scotland’s trade figures are the difference between each nation’s overseas exports and imports in goods in 2017. In Scotland, for example, the value of exports (£28.8bn) was £4.6bn greater than imports (£24.4bn). During this period, the RTS figures show Scotland has always exported a greater value of goods overseas than it has imported at the end of each financial year – known as a trade surplus. The second section of the claim in the Business for Scotland graphic is that the other UK countries have either fluctuated or been “persistently negative”. Throughout the period of recorded RTS data, England has always imported a greater value of goods than it has exported – known as a trade deficit. Wales has mostly operated a trade surplus – it did so consistently from 1996 until 2012. Since 2013, Wales has each year operated a trade deficit. Northern Ireland has also mostly operated a trade surplus. The country operated a trade deficit in 1997, from 2000 to 2002, and in 2012. However, these statistics do not account for trade between the nations of the UK, which makes up the majority of Scotland’s exports and imports. The latest figures covering 2016 show exports from Scotland to the rest of the UK had reduced, but still made up 61 per cent of the overall total. if(“undefined”==typeof window.datawrapper)window.datawrapper={};window.datawrapper={},window.datawrapper.embedDeltas={“100″:511,”200″:442,”300″:426,”400″:400,”500″:400,”700″:400,”800″:400,”900″:400,”1000”:400},window.datawrapper.iframe=document.getElementById(“datawrapper-chart-XrxwI”),window.datawrapper.iframe.style.height=window.datawrapper.embedDeltas.iframe.offsetWidth/100),100))]+”px”,window.addEventListener(“message”,function(a){if(“undefined”!=typeof a.data)for(var b in a.data)if(“XrxwI”==b)window.datawrapper.iframe.style.height=a.data+”px”}); Scotland’s overall trading balance is explained in the latest Quarterly National Accounts . It reports that “the estimated value of imports to Scotland from RUK  and ROW  is higher than the value of exports from Scotland to RUK and ROW, meaning there is a net trade deficit for the onshore economy”. This does not include the potential value of Scotland’s oil and gas reserves, which are not counted as a Scottish export but rather a UK export not tied to a region. It is also noted that the lack of a trade border for Scotland means particularly imports to Scotland can be hard to measure accurately. We must also take into account that the RTS statistics also only measure trade in goods, but not services. This is important because services, which includes things like financial activities and administration, make up a significant part of the UK’s economy, and is the largest part of Scotland’s exports at 49 per cent in 2016. Ferret Fact Service verdict: Mostly False This graphic’s claim that Scotland has run a trade surplus is misleading. While the HMRC figures show more exports than imports, that does not reflect the full picture of Scotland’s trading position as it only accounts for goods traded overseas.  Trade with other UK nations makes up a majority of Scottish trade, and when services are included in the statistics, Scotland is shown to have an overall net trade deficit. Ferret Fact Service (FFS) is a non-partisan fact checker, working to the International Fact-Checking Network fact-checkers’ code of principles. All the sources used in our checks are publicly available and the FFS fact-checking methodology can be viewed here . Want to suggest a fact check? Email us at factcheck@theferret.scot or join our community forum . In response to a Ferret Fact Service request for evidence, Business for Scotland provided balance of trade data from HMRC. Correction: An earlier version of this fact check did not include wider context around Scotland’s trade in services and within the UK. The RTS data only refers to goods traded between the regions and overseas. This has been reflected in the updated verdict. More like this Fact check: ‘What has the SNP ever done for us?’ SNP claim of best rural broadband improvement is Mostly True Fact check: The SNP in Scotland vs Labour in Wales Claim that military earning over just £24,000 will pay more tax in Scotland is False Share Tweet Subscribe HMRC mostly false Scottish Government Scottish independence 2 comments Ian Moyes says: March 26, 2024 at 5:33 pm So…… Instead of just saying “mostly false”, correct it. What is the TRUE Scottish balance of payments? Including services and oil/gas. Reply David M Crines says: August 3, 2024 at 9:56 am The exclusion of services is legitimate in my view from a balance of trade analysis. But to exclude oil/gas? Is that a balanced viewpoint? That will be replaced through time with wind water power. Maybe the Ferret, close relative of the weasel, will regard the wind too as a UK resource. Get real. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ View Comments (2) About us Contact Pitch us a story Privacy Trouble logging in? Complaints The Ferret is published by The Ferret Media Ltd, Registered Society, RS0040088. Manage cookie consent Find us on Mastodon Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join our co-operative now to get unlimited access. See other membership options Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Join now (£5 per month) You can join using Direct Debit, payment card or Paypal. Cancel at any time. If you are on a low-income you may be eligible for a free sponsored membership. Having trouble logging in? Try here. Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Hi! To read more you need to login. Not a member yet? Join now Hi! You can login using the form below. Not registered yet? Join now Log In Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Show Password Register | Lost Password? Having trouble logging in? Try here. Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Subscribe Privacy notice We use cookies on our website that help us remember your preferences and provide the best multi-media service we possibly can. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to allow all cookies. However you can adjust your Cookie Settings to disable non-essential cookies. Cookie settings ACCEPT Manage cookie consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of the website. We also use some non-necessary cookies that help us analyse and understand how you use this website and optimise your experience when we use third party services. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies, although you should be aware that opting-out may increase the possibility that some services may not work or display optimally. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non Necessary non-necessary Any cookies that may not vital for our website to function. By accepting this type of cookies you agree to let us record more information about you and your use of our website. Save & Accept Powered by