Astrologer predicted the World Trade Center attack-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home 9/11 Attack on America Astrologer predicted the World Trade Center attack-Fiction! Astrologer predicted the World Trade Center attack-Fiction! / 9/11 Attack on America , Terrorism / By Rich Buhler & Staff / March 17, 2015 A Las Vegas Astrologer Warned In a Published Book that September 11 was a Likely Day for Terrorist Attack- Truth! & Sort Of! Summary of eRumor: An email circulating in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, D.C. says the date of the attack is among those chosen by astrologer Lynne Palmer as likely for such an event. The Truth: Lynne Palmer is a Las Vegas Astrologer who bills herself as “adviser to Hollywood stars and Wall Street Financiers.” In her self-published book “Lynne Palmer’s 2001 Almanac,” Palmer lists September 11-13 as among the dates to “avoid terrorist attacks.” TruthOrFiction.com spoke with Lynne Palmer who said that she also chose those dates as ones associated with fire and explosions. Many of the emails we’ve received are from people who are under the impression that she pinpointed the days of the terrorist attack and “predicted” it. TruthOrFiction.com has reviewed some of her book however, and it’s not as precise as that. To be fair to Palmer, she has not claimed that she “predicted” the attack but only that September 11 was among the days in September that she considered best for “avoiding” terrorist attacks. Palmer’s book is an exhaustive astrological guide that lists nearly 500 different categories of activity and thousands of dates that ought to be avoided.  It advises the best days for everything from cutting cloth to having surgery. Under the category of “Avoid: Terrorist Attacks” she listed more than 130 dates in 2001. For September, she listed 16 dates for avoiding terrorist attacks..  Since there are only 30 days in the month, she had better than a 50 percent chance of a terrorist attack happening on one of those days. Just out of curiosity, we looked up “Avoid Travel by Air.”  She listed 13 dates in September to be avoided.  September 11 was not one of them. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x