Cops Take a Knee, Strand Redskins Players in Locker Room Overnight-Fiction! – Truth or Fiction? Skip to content Main Menu Home Fact Checks Menu Toggle Viral Content Politics Disinformation Entertainment Search News Support Us! Menu Toggle About Home Sports Cops Take a Knee, Strand Redskins Players in Locker Room Overnight-Fiction! Cops Take a Knee, Strand Redskins Players in Locker Room Overnight-Fiction! / Sports / By Rich Buhler & Staff / October 26, 2017 Cops Take a Knee, Strand Redskins Players in Locker Room Overnight- Fiction! Summary of eRumor: The Washington Redskins were stranded in a locker room in Philadelphia after local police officers “took a knee” and refused to escort players to their bus because of national anthem protests. The truth: The fabricated claim that the Washington Redskins team was stranded in a locker room after cops “took a knee” is the latest false report about the alleged fallout from NFL national anthem protests. This particular false report appeared at Freedumjunksun.com, a website that describes its content as satirical fiction, under the headline, “Cops Take A Knee Then Walk Out On Redskins Leaving Them Stranded In Their Locker Room Overnight,” in late October 2017. The report was quickly picked up by fringe and fake news websites that presented it as factual news. https://twitter.com/deplorabledalas/status/923611289510871040 After 11 Redskins players took a knee for the national anthem, the story goes, 14 police officers assigned to protect them shouted “Blue lives matter!” and told the team that “they were on their own” to fend against angry fans outside. The team supposedly had to wait until tail gating at the division rival’s stadium closed at 5 a.m. before clearing out and making the trip back to D.C. Again, Freedumjunksun.com describes its content as “pure satirical fiction,” and its content should not be considered trustworthy: We’ve investigated similar (false) reports that the New Orleans Saints were stranded on a runway when the flight crew took a knee , and that Chef Gordon Ramsey told his staff to take a knee when Miami Dolphins players came into his restaurant for a meal. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → Copyright © 2024 What's True Incorporated Home Fact Checks Search News Support Us! x